



Chapter 4: Talents & Traits “Like a sudden, violent snow squall that rends travelers blind and threatens to tear loose the very foundations of the sturdiest hall, the Snow Prince did sweep into our numbers. Indeed the ice and snow did begin to swirl and churn about the Elf, as if called upon to serve his bidding. The spinning of that gleaming spear whistled a dirge to all those who would stand in the way of the Snow Prince, and our mightiest fell before him that day.” “Fall of the Snow Prince”




Skills are not the only way a character’s abilities can be mea- Learning Talents sured. Talents and traits are important parts of any Character. The XP cost to learn a talent is based on that talent’s level.
Talents are the various unique abilities the character has come to Characters must fulfill all requirements for a talent in order to
possess through training or experience. They include everything learn it. Learning talents governed by a favored characteristic from passive bonuses to activated abilities and can even modify costs 75% of the regular XP cost (round down to the nearest how the character uses certain skills. Traits are rules that reflect multiple of 5). various natural facts about the character or certain abilities they
C t
ore alentS possess, such as the ability to fly or see in the dark. Most talents have a Governing Characteristic on which Core Talents form the backbone of your character’s abilities and they are based. Talents governed by one of a character’s favored strengths in the world of Tamriel. Within this segment, you’ll characteristics cost less. Some talents have more than one gov- encounter an array of diverse talents that define your character’s erning characteristic, in which case only one of them needs to prowess across various aspects of the game. These talents serve as be favored to reduce the cost (there is no bonus for having more the building blocks for your character’s combat ability, magical than one of them favored). Some have none, in which case the aptitude, interactions with the world, and much more. character does not need to meet any characteristic requirements
Awareness
and simply pays the base cost. Awareness talents focus on enhancing a character’s ability to The following sections divide talents into categories and offer perceive their environment and glean information about others. descriptions and prerequisites for each.
Combat Senses
Talent Levels The character has keen combat instincts. Each talent has an associated Talent Level. Talents of higher Novice (Perception) levels have more powerful effects, as they represent more pow- The character can choose to calculate their Initiative Rating by erful abilities that are more difficult to acquire. The level of taking twice their Perception Bonus and adding two instead of the talent determines the XP cost of that talent. The level also the usual formula. determines a talent’s characteristic requirements. A character must meet the base characteristic score requirement (unmodified Honed Senses by external effects) of at least one of the talent’s governing The character has honed their physical senses beyond the capabilities characteristics before they can purchase it. Some talents have of the average person through training or experience. additional requirements, which will be listed with those talents. Apprentice (Perception)
The character has honed their senses so that they can partially
If a talent has no listed governing characteristic, then there is compensate for the loss of one with the others. Halves all penno need to meet any characteristic requirements and the talent’s alties imposed on any tests by the loss or impairment of one cost is always reduced as if it was governed by the character’s sense (bad lighting, blindness, deafness, and so on) as long as favored characteristic. they have the others to fall back on.
Talent Costs and Requirements One with All
Characteristic The character has honed their senses to the peak of their capabilities.
Talent Level XP Cost
Requirement Expert (Perception) Requires/Replaces Honed Senses
Novice 100 25
The character has honed their senses so that they can entirely
Apprentice 200 30
compensate for the loss of one with the others. Negates all
Journeyman 300 35
penalties imposed on any tests by the loss or impairment of
Adept 400 40 one sense (bad lighting, blindness, deafness, and so on) as
Expert 500 45 long as they have the others to fall back on.
Master 800 50
Observant
The character can spot threats coming at a distance.
Expert (Perception)
The character can treat their Evade skill as also being governed
by Perception. 72




Hyper Awareness
Combat
The character uses their extreme awareness to dominate combat.
Master (Perception) Combat talents improve a character’s ability to successfully
Requires Observant engage and triumph in a variety of combat scenarios.
When the character passes any Combat Style or Evade skill
test they can choose to take the number of degrees of success Arms Master that they rolled, or take a number equal to their Observe The character is skilled in the fundamentals of combat and is at skill rank instead. home using all sorts of weapons.
Adept (Strength, Agility)
Invisible The character never suffers the usual -20 untrained penalty for The character is aware of every leaf and branch around them as using weapons not included in one of their Combat Styles. they move and rarely make a sound or leaves a trace.
Apprentice (Perception) Berserker
Survival tests made to track the character suffer a -20 penalty. The character can psych themselves up into a frenzy.
Novice (Willpower)
Keen Intuition The character may take a Primary Action to gain the Frenzied
The character has a powerful intuition developed through experience condition. They only attack enemies as long as the condition and rarely misses important details. was entered voluntarily. When the character loses the frenzied
Expert (Perception) condition, they only lose 1 SP instead of the usual 2.
When the character passes an Observe skill test they can choose
to take the number of degrees of success that they rolled or take Controlled Anger a number equal to their Observe skill rank instead. The character’s rage burns hot one moment, and vanishes the next.
Adept (Willpower)
Light Sleeper Requires Berserker
The character is a particularly light sleeper and seems to be able Once per Short Rest, the character may remove the Frenzied to sense danger approaching. condition as a Free Action. They can also roll a +0 Willpower
Apprentice (Perception) test to take control of any involuntarily applied Frenzied
The character always counts as being awake for the purposes of condition. The character no longer loses SP as part of losing making Observe tests and determining surprise, even if asleep. the Frenzied condition, but cannot retain SP over their max SP. They also halve any skill test penalties associated with the Danger Sense Frenzied condition.
The character has a sixth sense that allows them to anticipate
danger. Rage-fueled Frenzy
Journeyman (Perception) The character pours their pent up rage into a few frightening
Requires Light Sleeper moments of glorious destruction. The character can always test Perception to avoid surprise, Adept (Willpower) regardless of the circumstances. Requires Berserker
The character doubles bonuses to their Strength Bonus and
their Stamina Points gained from the Frenzied condition. 'Tis But a Scratch
The character can channel their frenzy to ignore debilitating
wounds.
Expert (Endurance)
Requires Berserker
While the character is frenzied, they double the associated bonus to their Wound Threshold and ignore any Crippled or Lost Limb/Body Conditions that they gain during this frenzy. These effects are immediately applied as normal once the character loses the Frenzied condition. 73




Brawler Crackshot
The character is used to fighting in chaotic brawls and can use that The character unleashes agile precision as their bow becomes an
chaos to their advantage. extension of their grace.
Novice (Strength, Agility) Expert (Agility)
The character adds a bonus degree of success to any successful The character can use their Agility Bonus for the purposes of
Combat Style or Evade tests made while within melee range of determining Splitting or Slashing damage in place of their
two or more opponents. Strength bonus for attacks made using Splitting or Slashing arrows.
Gladiator
The character is accustomed to fighting outnumbered and can Crippling Strikes
easily defend themself against multiple opponents. The character can direct and focus the force of their blow to inflict
Expert (Strength, Agility) bone-shattering injuries.
Requires Brawler Apprentice (Strength)
If the character is the target of a melee attack while within the The character treats all enemy Wound Thresholds as being one
melee range of at least two opponents, then they make a free lower than normal when making melee attacks. defensive reaction against that attack, but only once per round. Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds
God of War If your group is using the alternate rules for Wounds
The character fights best when surrounded by foes and is at home defined in the Physical Health section in Chapter
in the swirling tide of battle. 5, replace the rules of the Crippling Strikes Talent
Master (Strength, Agility) with the following: “The character causes enemies
Requires Brawler and Gladiator wounded by them with a melee weapon attack to
When the character passes a Combat Style or Evade skill test take a -10 penalty to their shock test. This stacks made while within melee range of two or more opponents with any other penalties to shock tests.” (and made against those opponents) they can choose to take the number of degrees of success that they rolled, or take a Killing Blow number equal to the corresponding skill rank instead. The character can put all of themself into a single attack aimed to end the fight. Note: The Brawler talent only applies to the rolled DoS. Master (Strength)
Requires Crippling Strikes
When the character spends a Stamina point to make a power
attack, they add three times the amount of stamina spent to a maximum of 3SP for +9 damage.
Dauntless Bulwark
The character positions themself at the front of any fight and strives
always to protect their allies from harm.
Journeyman (Strength, Endurance)
Opponents within the character’s melee range cannot make attacks of opportunity against this character’s allies.
Defender
The character is willing to step in and take a hit for their allies.
Journeyman (Endurance, Willpower, Perception)
As a 1 AP reaction the character can switch positions with an ally within 2 meters if that ally is attacked. They become the new target of the attack and either block, parry, or counter attack it for 0 AP. Neither the character nor the ally spend movement or provoke Attacks of Opportunity when this talent is used. 74




Dual Fighter
The character is particularly skilled at fighting with two weapons, fluidly weaving attacks and parries together.
Master (Strength, Agility)
When wielding two weapons, the character raises the maximum number of melee attacks they are allowed to make in one round from two to three as long as they use each weapon to attack at least once.
Eye of Vengeance
The character’s well aimed shots can inflict terrible wounds.
Apprentice (Agility)
The character treats all enemy Wound Thresholds as being one
lower than normal when making ranged attacks. Duelist Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds The character is used to fighting one on one, where they can focus If your group is using the alternate rules for Wounds entirely on their opponent. defined in the Physical Health section in Chapter
Novice (Strength, Agility) 5, replace the rules of the Eye of Vengeance talent
The character adds a bonus degree of success to any successful with the following: “The character causes enemies
Combat Style or Evade tests made while within melee range wounded by them with a ranged weapon attack to
of only one opponent. have a -10 penalty to their shock test. This stacks with any other penalties to shock tests.”
Exploit Advantage
The character is a fearsome foe in duels, taking maximum advan- Fearsome tage of every mistake. The character is an imposing presence in a fight, and they use this
Journeyman (Strength, Agility) to make their enemies think twice about confronting them directly.
Requires Duelist Expert (Strength) When the character uses the Press Advantage or Overextend The character may use the Persuade (Strength) skill in place of Opponent advantages they may choose to double the penalty/ the Evade skill when taking the Evade reaction against melee bonus (respectively), but only as long as there are no other attacks. characters within melee range of either the character or their opponent. The effect is lost if at any time another character, Follow-up Strike friend or foe, would enter melee range of either one. The character has mastered the art of following up any attack at unexpected angles. Champion Journeyman (Agility) The character fights best one on one, where they can take the full Whenever this character fails a Combat Style test made to attack measure of their opponent. while dual wielding, they can choose to spend a SP to make
Master (Strength, Agility) a follow-up attack with the other weapon at a -20 penalty as
Requires Duelist and Exploit Advantage a Free Action.
When the character passes a Combat Style or Evade skill test
made while within melee range of only one opponent (and This follow-up attack does not count towards the character's made against that opponent) they can choose to take the attacks per round. number of degrees of success that they rolled or take a number equal to the corresponding skill rank instead. Lightning Reflexes The character reacts rapidly to danger. Note: The Duelist talent only applies to the rolled DoS. Expert (Agility) When making an initiative roll, the character can roll twice and choose the higher of the two rolls. Additionally, the character can attempt to parry ranged attacks (but not spells) at a -20. 75




Mighty Cleave Sneak Attack
The character cleaves through multiple targets in one blow. The character takes advantage of stealth to set a deadly strike.
Expert (Strength) Apprentice (Agility)
While wielding a weapon in two hands the character can, as part The character adds their Stealth skill rank to the damage of of an All Out Attack, strike two viable targets within their melee successful attacks made if they were hidden from the target range. Each target must be within 2 meters of one another. The when they made the attack. character only rolls once for the attack and each defender has an opportunity to defend separately against that attack roll. Roll Assassinate damage separately for each target that is hit. This attack cannot The character learns to exploit the weaknesses in a target's armor. gain advantages and only counts as a single attack for the round. Journeyman (Agility)
Requires Sneak Attack
Perfect Hit The character can cause the bonus damage from the Sneak
The character’s attacks land exactly where they need to inflict the Attack talent to ignore any AR of the hit location they are most damage. hitting if they are attacking with a one-handed weapon that
Expert (Perception) has the Exploit Weakness Weapon Quality.
The character can use their Perception Bonus for the purposes
of determining Splitting, Slashing, or Crushing damage in place Shadow Strike of their Strength bonus. The character can strike and melt back into the shadows.
Expert (Agility)
Precise Requires Assassinate
The character is precise in their every attack. If the character makes a successful attack while hidden, then
Adept (Agility, Perception) they can attempt a Stealth test opposed by the Observe of any
The character suffers no penalty for Precision Strike attacks. enemies who would reasonably be able to notice the attack. On success, or if they roll more degrees of success, they remain Quick Draw hidden from those enemies. If the attack is a melee attack, The character is able to quickly ready themself for combat, drink a then the character must forgo the advantage gained from the potion, or switch out weapons. hidden condition to benefit from this talent.
Apprentice (Agility) If the current Turn ends and the character is in a spot where
The character’s first Ready Weapon action in a given round does they could not reasonably remain hidden, the Hidden connot cost an AP (except for reloads). dition is lost. Additionally, the character can choose to either reduce the AP cost of drinking a potion to 1 or drink a potion without pro- Cutthroat voking Attacks of Opportunity. The character has mastered their ability to ambush a target and take advantage of their existing injuries. Skirmisher Master (Agility) The character is able to fire on the move. Requires Assassinate
Journeyman (Agility) When the character deals damage after mitigation as a result
The character can make a ranged attack as a Free Action when- of a sneak attack, they apply the Bleeding (1) condition to ever they take the Dash action but at a -20 penalty. the target. Additionally, any damage dealt using a weapon with the Small quality against a target with the Bleeding (X) Slash and Stash condition applies an additional Bleeding (1). An unaware opponent and their coin are soon parted.
Adept (Agility) Thunder Charge
After the character deals damage to an unaware or surprised The character rushes their opponents with a wild charge. enemy, they can spend a Stamina Point to roll Subterfuge against Journeyman (Strength, Agility) the enemy's Observe in order to grab a random item that is on The character can make an All Out Attack using 1 AP, instead said enemy's person, such as a potion hanging off their belt or of the usual 2, whenever they take the Dash action on their a coin pouch. The item must be within reach and not stashed Turn. This is applicable only if their movement would bring anywhere that would require extensive effort to acquire, like if them into melee range with someone they were not initially it were inside a backpack. within melee range of at the start of their Turn. Additionally, they must move at least half their base Speed toward the target during that Turn. 76




Tricky Fighter Unstoppable Might
The character uses deceit and trickery to their advantage in combat. The character is capable of wielding the mightiest of weapons in
Expert (Intelligence, Personality) only one hand.
When the character passes a Combat Style skill test made against Expert (Strength) an opponent in melee range they can choose to take the number The character can dual wield using hand-and-a-half weapons of degrees of success that they rolled, or take a number equal while still benefitting from the two-handed damage value. to their Deceive skill rank. Additionally, the character can wield two-handed weapons in a single hand, but cannot benefit from the effects of the Dual Rapid Reload Fighter talent while doing so. When using their weapons in The character is able to quickly reload to take a second shot. either of these ways, the character cannot use those weapons
Journeyman (Agility) to Parry or Counter-Attack.
The character reduces the Reload quality of any ranged weapons
they wield by 1 (to a minimum of 0, a Free Action). Wrestler The character is particularly skilled at subduing their opponents. Teamwork Adept (Strength, Agility) The character is able to coordiante their efforts with their allies. When the character passes a characteristic or skill test made to
Novice (Perception) grapple, restrain or entangle their opponent they can choose to
The character adds a bonus degree of success to any successful take the number of degrees of success that they rolled, or take Combat Style tests made to attack or defend against opponents a number equal to their Combat Style skill rank. in melee range as long as that opponent is also within melee
Crafting
range of an ally who also has this talent. Crafting talents improve a character’s ability to create items, Back to Back including those produced through the arcane crafts. The character fights best with allies, each watching over the other.
Journeyman (Perception) Alchemist (School)
Requires Teamwork The character is particularly practiced in creating efficient potions
The character can make an attack of opportunity whenever an with effects from a given school. enemy within their melee range makes a melee attack against Apprentice (Intelligence) an ally who also has this talent. The character increases the strength of alchemical ingredients of the chosen school by 10% (round down to the nearest whole Unarmed Prowess number). The character is a master of attacking while unarmed.
Journeyman (Strength, Agility) Manifold Enchanter
The character adds their Strength bonus to their unarmed The character is able to craft enchantments with more than one effect. damage. Expert (Intelligence) The character can create cast, strike, and constant enchantments Unarmed Defender with up to three effects/spells instead of just one. The character is a master of defending themself while unarmed.
Expert (Strength, Agility) Procedural Enchanting
Requires Unarmed Prowess The character is able to craft consistently strong enchantments. While unarmed the character can attempt to parry attacks Journeyman (Intelligence) made with weapons with an equal or longer range than their When the character passes an Enchant skill test when enchanting own (instead of merely longer ones) if they are within their an item, they can choose to use their rolled DoS or their Enchant own melee range of the attacker. skill rank as the Binding Strength of the enchantment.
Unrelenting Master Alchemist
The character is relentless in their assault, and few foes can escape The character knows how to safely get the most out of any given them. ingredient.
Journeyman (Strength) Master (Intelligence)
Enemies within melee range of the character cannot take the The character increases the strength of alchemical ingredients
Disengage action. by 20% (stacks to 30% with Alchemist [School]) and never suffers from alchemical backfires. 77




General
General talents are those talents that are widely applicable or
do not fit in any other category.
Expert (Specialization)
The character is an expert in their area of specialization.
Expert ([Skill’s Governing Characteristics])
Requires the skill to be at adept rank
The character chooses one of their existing specializations when
they purchase this talent. The character may reroll failed skill tests made with that specialization (but only once for a given test). This talent can be purchased multiple times for different specializations. Grandmaster (Skill) The character is the absolute best at what they do.
Master ([Skill’s Governing Characteristics])
Requires the chosen skill be at master rank
The character may reroll failed skill tests for the chosen skill (but only once for a given test). This talent does not stack with other talents that would allow rerolls. Grandmaster can be purchased multiple times for different skills. If this talent is taken with a magical skill, then it increases the bonus to effective skill rank by +1, which allows for the casting of Grandmaster spells, the enchantment of Master spell effects, or the creation of level 6 potion/poison effects without penalty. Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained The character knows when to bend the rules in order to get results. Untouchable
Adept (Intelligence) The character is extremely lucky and always seems to escape the most
The character can choose to disregard normal safety procedures difficult situations unscathed. But how long can it last? when creating a potion. When doing so, they gain a +20 bonus Master (Any) on their Alchemy skill test, but the potion backfires if they roll The character can choose to replace their Wound Threshold with doubles. If the test fails it automatically backfires (roll a d4 on 3 times their Luck Bonus. Additionally, if the character is hit the appropriate backfire table and add the highest included spell by an attack, they may spend any amount of available LP after level). Ignore Master Alchemist when using this effect. damage is rolled to increase their WT by the amount spent for the purposes of resolving that attack.
Trial and Error
The character learns from every mistake they make. Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds
Journeyman (Intelligence) If your group is using the alternate rules for Wounds
The character gains a cumulative +10 modifier on Alchemy tests defined in the Physical Health section in Chapter 5, made to brew a potion or poison if their last Alchemy test was replace the rules of the Untouchable Talent with the a failed attempt to create the same potion (max +30). following: “The character can choose to expend a Luck Point to reroll a failed Shock Test. This can be Salvage Energy done multiple times for a single Shock Test.”
The character carefully untangles the magicka woven into a failed
enchantment, recovering the lost energy.
Expert (Intelligence)
When the character fails an Enchant test to create an enchantment they can make another Enchant test at a -40 penalty. On success, the soul gem is not destroyed and maintains all of its soul energy. Alternatively, they may attempt the test at a -20 penalty. On a success the gem survives, but with no energy. 78




Intellectual Interrogator
Intellectual talents grant a character different mental feats and The character is a skilled interrogator, able to pry information out can enhance their abilities in various intellectual pursuits. of most people with ease.
Apprentice (Intelligence)
Attention to Detail When the character passes a Persuade skill test made to interroThe character is always scrutinizing those around them. gate a character they can choose to take the number of degrees
Novice (Intelligence, Perception) of success that they rolled or take a number equal to their
The character can use the Investigate skill to oppose attempts Persuade skill rank instead. to deceive them.
Prediction
Businessman The character is a cunning warrior, able to deduce when danger The character is a shrewd businessman and experienced in the art might arise and determine how to best respond. of commerce. Journeyman (Intelligence)
Adept (Intelligence) The character can choose to use their Intelligence bonus in place
When the character passes a Commerce skill test they can choose of their Agility bonus when calculating their Initiative Rating. to take the number of degrees of success that they rolled or take a number equal to their Commerce skill rank instead. Scholar The character is a burgeoning academic, capable of learning about Blending many subjects in great depth. The character is able to use their knowledge of an area to help them Apprentice (Intelligence) blend in with the locals. The character halves the base XP cost required to gain
Novice (Intelligence) Specializations for the Lore skill (50 instead of 100), and may
The character can choose to use the Lore skill in place of the take twice the usual number. Stealth skill when shadowing someone through a crowded area.
Tactician
The character is a skilled tactical commander, able to make sure "I don't want to see you treating any of these books poorly. Are their allies are all in the right place at the right time. we clear?" Expert (Intelligence) - Urag gro-Shub Allies of this character may use the character's initiative result in place of their own when determining initiative for combat. 79




Mobility Swashbuckler
The mobility talents improve a character’s ability to move The character is able to fight well in a number of unconventional through their environment quickly, effectively, and without situations (such as swinging, climbing, on wobbly or slippery surfaces, harming themself, both in and out of combat. and so forth).
Journeyman (Agility)
Armored Agility The character ignores any limits placed on any combat related
With enough training even heavily armored warriors can maneuver skill tests by their Athletics or Acrobatics skill ranks (except for with grace. when fighting underwater).
Expert (Agility)
The character reduces Acrobatics test penalties gained from their Unnaturally Agile
armor class by their Acrobatics skill rank minus 1 multiplied The character is so fast they can even dodge arrows. by 10. Adept (Agility) If the character successfully evades an area of effect attack, then
Assassin Strike they may immediately move a number of meters equal to their
The character can strike rapidly and then fall back. Evade skill rank. If this move would allow them to escape the
Journeyman (Agility) affected area, they take no damage from the attack. This moveIf the character successfully inflicts damage with an attack (after ment does not count toward their total movement for the round.
mitigation), then the target of that attack cannot make an attack
Resilience
of opportunity against the character during that Turn. Resilience talents enhance a character’s raw survivability.
Catfall
The character can fall a surprising distance without harm. Die-Hard
Apprentice (Agility) The character is able to shrug off the effects of many wounds.
Reduce the distance the character falls by a number of meters Adept (Endurance) equal to their Agility bonus when calculating fall damage. The character can reroll failed Endurance tests to resist the shock effects of a wound, or to avoid death, but only once per test.
Ghost
The character can move both quickly and silently. Unstoppable
Expert (Agility) The character is able to soldier on even when heavily wounded.
The character moves at their normal speed when hidden. Master (Endurance), Requires Die-Hard The character halves the passive effects of wounds.
Hard Target
The character can move fast, ducking and dodging without slowing. Enduring
Journeyman (Agility) The character is able to push on even when exhausted.
If the character takes the Dash action and moves at least half of Adept (Endurance) their base Speed, then any ranged attacks made against them The character halves the penalties imposed by levels of fatigue. until the start of their next Turn suffer a -20 penalty.
Iron Jaw
Leap Up The character is hard to knock down or stop. The character is able to quickly leap to their feet in a smooth motion. Apprentice (Strength, Endurance)
Novice (Agility) The character is always entitled to an Endurance test to avoid
The character can stand up from prone without spending any being knocked back, knocked down, or stunned. movement and without triggering attacks of opportunity.
Iron Will
Step Aside The character’s mind is a fortress protected against manipulation. The character can easily dance through a swirling melee unharmed. Adept (Willpower)
Expert (Agility) The character may reroll failed Willpower tests to resist Illusion
Evade reactions against attacks of opportunity cost 0 AP unless magic and any others forms of mental manipulation or coercion, the character fails the associated evade test. but only once per test. 80




Meditation
Social
The character is able to quickly recover their strength in a short time.
Adept (Willpower) Social talents improve a character’s abilities to conduct themBy spending a short rest in uninterrupted meditation, the selves amongst others, to lead them, to deceive them, or to
character doubles their normal Magicka and Stamina point sway their opinions. regeneration.
Big Words
Rapid Recovery The character can flood a conversation with technical jargon to
The character has seen their share of wounds and heals more quickly. befuddle others.
Journeyman (Endurance) Journeyman (Intelligence)
The character doubles their natural healing rate and heals 1d4 The character can use the Lore skill in place of the Deceive skill HP on a short rest. in appropriate situations (GM discretion).
Stubborn Charlatan
The character is used to the sight of mundane horrors. The character is an experienced con-man who can make a pretty
Journeyman (Willpower) penny on the market with their skills.
The character may reroll failed Panic tests once per test. Journeyman (Personality)
The character can use the Deceive skill in place of the Commerce
Fearless skill. The character is able to withstand even the most unnatural horrors.
Expert (Willpower), Requires Stubborn Into the Fire
The character may reroll failed Horror tests once per test. The character inspires those around them to fight on even in the face of fear. Wall of Steel Journeyman (Personality) The character and their armor are one, and they are able to fight As long as this character is leading the group then they and in conditions that would easily tire others. their allies roll twice on the appropriate table on a failed Fear
Master (Endurance) test and use the lower result.
The Character increases the AR and BR of any armor and shields
worn by +1. Additionally, the character ignores the speed penalty Inspire Heroism from any armor worn. The character can inspire their comrades to acts of heroism in battle.
Apprentice (Personality)
Once per round as a Free Action, the character can make a command test to inspire an ally who can perceive them. When inspired, the ally gains +10 to their next combat test. "One sure mark of a fool is to dismiss anything that falls outside his experience as being impossible." - Farngar Secret-Fire
Questioning
The character is skilled at drawing information out of others.
Journeyman (Intelligence)
When the character passes a Persuade skill test made to try to
elicit information from a character through conversation they can choose to take the number of degrees of success that they rolled or take a number equal to their Persuade skill rank instead. 81




Cryomancer
Spellcasting
The character prefers the cold of elemental frost, freezing their Spellcasting talents improve a character’s ability to channel and enemies in their tracks. control magicka through spells. Journeyman (Willpower) Whenever the character casts a spell that deals frost damage, Bend Reality increase the amount dealt by 1.
The character is able to use Alteration cantrips in order to perform
otherwise difficult physical feats. Control
Journeyman (Willpower) The character is able to control their expenditure of magicka in
The character can use the Alteration skill in place of the Athletics order to limit the possibility of backfires. or Acrobatics skills, but each time they do so they must spend Adept (Willpower) 2 magicka points. The character can test Willpower to negate a magical backfire.
Bladecaller Depth of Understanding
The conjurer is proficient with the use of summoned weapons. The character primarily relies on the depth of their natural magicka They use the same ferocious will used to bind their Daedric reserves and their understanding of the magical arts to cast spells. armaments to channel their inner fury. Expert (Intelligence)
Adept (Willpower) The character gains the Power Well (IB x 5) Trait.
The character can use their Willpower Bonus in place of their
Strength Bonus when determining Slashing, Splitting, or “Sheathe your swords. Lay your shields on the ground. You will Crushing damage when using a Bound Weapon summoned need no weapon and no armor, for the Magicka within you by the Conjure Weapon spell. will be your guard and your guide from this day forward.”
Weapon Echo Raminus Polus to a group of Mages Guild initiates
The character has mastered the art of weaving a conjured weapon
in with their attacks. Electromancer
Expert (Willpower) The character is a natural with electricity, blasting their enemies
Requires Bladecaller with aetheric lightning. When the character casts a Conjure Weapon spell, they may Journeyman (Willpower) choose to reduce the duration of the spell to 1 round and allow Whenever the character casts a spell that deals shock damage, the weapon to freely float above the ground in an unoccupied increase the amount dealt by 1. space they can see. When summoned in this way, the conjurer may make a single attack with the weapon on their Turn Living Armory (which still counts as one of the total number of attacks they The conjurer has sharpened their mind like a keen blade and can do each round) using Combat Style (Willpower) for its tempered their focus like skyforged steel. Through constant mental test. The first of these attacks can be made as a Free Action, incantation they maintain their conjured arms and armour indefbut subsequent attacks with a weapon echo require 1 AP. initely, at the expense of their own focus. Immediately before or after making this attack, the character Master (Willpower) can move the weapon their WB meters in any direction. The character can choose to reduce their AP by 1 point instead of paying the Magicka cost of Upkeeping all active Conjure Creative Armour and Conjure Weapon effects that affect only the caster. The character takes joy in the experiemental side of magic and is If the character ever loses concentration, such as by being more efficient when not bound by traditional rules. Stunned, Dazed, knocked Unconscious, or simply choosing
Apprentice (Willpower) to drop concentration, the spells’ effects immediately end as if
The character cannot take the Methodical talent they had not paid their Upkeep. The character improves their Willpower bonus by 1 for spell restraint purposes when casting unconventional spells. Magicka Cycling
The character is able to recapture some of the magicka used to cast
a spell, but doing so can be risky...
Expert (Willpower)
The character improves their Willpower bonus by 2 for spell restraint purposes. 82




Master of Magicka Overcharge
The character is able to recapture magicka expended when casting The character can overcharge an elemental spell by expending extra
spells without blunting the effect of the spell itself. magicka to produce a more powerful effect.
Master (Willpower) Expert (Willpower)
Requires Magicka Cycling or Depth of Understanding The character can double the cost they pay for a spell (after spell The character can overload a spell with the overload attribute restraint) in order to roll damage twice and use the highest when even if they restrain that spell. calculating that spell’s damage.
Flow of Magicka Pyromancer
The character understands the ebb and flow of the forces of magicka, The character has a gift for using fire and wields it to burn their and can manipulate it to disrupt other mages. enemies to a cinder.
Master (Willpower) Journeyman (Willpower)
As a reaction to a spell cast, the character may make a -20 Whenever the character casts a spell that deals fire damage, Mysticism skill test. If their degrees of success exceed the spell increase the amount dealt by 1. level of the spell being cast, then the effect of the spell is negated.
Spell effects or magical abilities which do not have Spell Levels Spell Sword
cannot be negated in this way. The character is able to perform the minimum necessary motions to manipulate the forces of magicka. Healer Journeyman (Willpower)
The character has learned to use restoration in order to treat the The character only needs one free hand to cast spells without
damage caused by more severe wounds. penalty instead of two.
Adept (Willpower)
The character can make a Restoration test and spend 10 magicka Thought Caster to perform an hour long ritual in order to treat a wound that The character can cast a spell purely by thought. they or another character has so that it can begin to heal naturally. Master (Willpower), Requires Spell Sword
The character does not need to speak or have hands free in
Mage Guard order to cast spells.
The character is able to channel excess magicka to harden their
defensive spells. Strong Willed
Journeyman (Willpower) The character is able to force their will upon summoned creatures
The character can add a +1 bonus to the effect of a spell they more efficiently than others, making Daedra and Spirits have a cast with the Reinforce attribute. They must not restrain the harder time resisting their summons. spell during casting to gain this benefit. Adept (Willpower)
The character gains a bonus Degree of Success on all successful
Arcane Defender Conjuration tests.
The character has mastered their magical defensive abilities and is
able to use excess magicka more effectively when on the defensive. Seasoned Conjurer
Master (Willpower) The conjurer is an experienced summoner, able to bind those to
Requires Mage Guard their will with relative ease. The character increases the bonus gained from the Mage Guard Expert (Willpower), Requires Strong Willed Talent from 1 to WB/2 (round up). When the character succeeds on a Conjuration test, they can choose to take the number of degrees of success that
Methodical they rolled or take a number equal to their Conjuration skill
The character is most effective when given rules which they can rank instead. master and learn to work within.
Apprentice (Willpower) Unfettered Conjuration
The character cannot take the Creative talent The conjurer has mastered the balance between magicka efficiency
The character improves their Willpower bonus by 1 for spell and control of their summons. restraint purposes when casting conventional spells. Master (Willpower)
Requires Strong Willed
Creatures summoned by the character do not suffer a penalty
to their AP as a result of restraining the summoning spell. 83




Weapon Expertise
These talents are distinct from general combat talents, which are mostly concerned with general styles of fighting, in that they reflect an advantage that a character has when wielding a specific weapon in a particular way. They are intended to enable specific play-styles based around the unique features of a given weapon.
Bearded Warrior
The character has learned to make the best of their beard. The one on the axe, of course!
Expert (Strength, Agility)
When the character makes a melee attack with a battle axe
Taskmaster or war axe that their opponent successfully blocks, then the
The character is able to summon more Daedra at the same time character can spend a Stamina point to immediately make
and keep them all in line. an opposed Strength test against the target. If the character
Expert (Willpower) wins, the target drops their shield to the ground. Additionally,
The character may reduce the AP required by each Mindlock when the character deals at least one damage after mitigation
trait affecting them by 1 (to a minimum of 1). with either a battle or war axe then they may choose to move the target one meter in any direction that does not cause their
Master of the Hordes distance from the character to increase.
The conjurer is a master at summoning Daedra and
barely needs a thought to keep most under their control.
Master (Willpower)
Requires Taskmaster
The character may reduce the AP required by each Mindlock
trait affecting them by 1 (to a minimum of 0). This can apply to a maximum number of creatures summoned in this way equal to the summoners WB. A character may use this talent or Taskmaster on a summoned creature, but not both at once.
Trickster
The character has learned that even the simplest of illusions can
have practical, everyday applications.
Apprentice (Willpower)
The character can use the Illusion skill in place of the Deceive Beast of Steel
skill, but each time they do so they must spend 1 magicka point. The character has mastered the fickle flail, and wields it to deadly and terrifying effect on the field. Void Channeler Expert (Strength) The conjurer can empower their summoned Daedra. When wielding a flail or great flail, the character can spend either
Expert (Willpower) an Action Point or a Stamina Point to build up Momentum
The character can spend a Stamina Point to increase all their as they begin spinning the flail. Maintaining momentum is a summoned Daedra’s Natural Toughness by the Conjurer’s Free Action. For attacks made with momentum, the characWillpower Bonus for one Round. ter rolls an additional d4 (flail) or d6 (great flail) for damage.
Momentum is lost when the character takes an Action other
The Mending Tides of Oblivion than attacking with the flail or dashing, when an attack with The conjurer can harness the rippling black tides of the momentum is blocked, or at any other time the GM deems void to replenish their minions. appropriate. Additionally, flails wielded by the character gain
Master (Willpower) the Concussive quality.
Requires Void Channeler
All summoned daedra under the character’s control gain the Regeneration (Conjurer’s WB) trait. 84




Blademaster Cleaver of Men
The character has mastered the many forms of the longsword. The greatsword can be used to sweep through numerous opponents.
Expert (Strength, Agility) Expert (Strength)
The character knows how to leverage their strength with a long- When wielding a greatsword this character may choose to replace
sword using the hilt of their weapon or a well placed thrust the weapon’s Slashing quality with Crushing (2). When making to overcome their foe’s armor. When making Combat Style All Out Attacks with a greatsword the character may strike one (Strength) tests to wield a longsword in two hands the character additional target within 2 meters of the original target. This only may choose to replace the Slashing quality with Crushing (1). requires one attack test, and both targets defend normally. Roll damage separately for each target hit. This attack cannot win The character also knows that speed often triumphs over strength, advantages. This talent can stack with Mighty Cleave. and can take maximum advantage of quick precise blows to bring down an opponent. When making Combat Style (Agility) Daisho tests to wield a longsword in two hands the character may choose Having mastered the art of Akaviri Blade-Dancing, the character to use their Agility bonus in place of their Strength bonus for has become intimately familiar with using their weapons in perfect the purposes of the Slashing quality. harmony, treating them like extensions of his own limbs.
Expert (Strength, Agility)
Additionally, when the character takes a Defensive Stance action Any Katana Wielded in two hands increases their damage value while holding a longsword in two hands they gain an additional to 1d10. Additionally, if the character is dual wielding with a +10 to the next parry made before their next Turn. Katana in one hand and a Wakizashi in the other they may use the two-handed damage value of each respective weapon(Katana Bruiser 1d8; Wakizashi 1d6) instead of their one-handed damage value. The character fights with simple, repeated, crushing blows.
Expert (Strength) Death by a Thousand Cuts
The character increases their damage with thrown axes by their The character has mastered the art of slicing into their opponents
Strength bonus. This replaces the Agility bonus added by Dart with frightening accuracy. Thrower, if chosen. Making throwing attacks with hand axes Master (Strength, Agility) does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and thrown axes can Requires Daisho be retrieved as a Free Action if the character is able to move When the character deals at least one point of damage to a to where the axe landed. Drawing hand axes does not provoke target after mitigation using a Katana or a Wakizashi, they attacks of opportunity. Maces the character wields gain the can apply the Bleeding (1) condition. Concussive quality, and All Out Attacks made with maces cause the target to lose one stamina if the target takes damage from Dart Thrower the attack after mitigation. The character can throw two knives or darts at once and places their throws for maximum damage.
Expert (Agility)
The character increases their damage with all thrown weapons
by their Agility bonus. Additionally, whenever the character makes a ranged attack with a thrown dagger or throwing star/ dart, they may choose to make this attack at a -10 penalty and expend another thrown weapon of the same type in order to cause two hits on a successful attack instead of just one.
Executioner
The character’s sweeping blows are fueled by a savage brutality.
Expert (Strength)
The character increases the bonus from All Out Attacks to +30 and adds 1d4 to their Strength bonus for the purpose of the Splitting/Slashing quality when All Out Attacking with great axes and scimitars. Additionally, this character’s foes suffer a -20 penalty to Shock tests made because of wounds inflicted by greataxes and scimitars. 85




Firing Line Kensai
The character is adept at firing from a fixed position. The character has become a master of shock and awe, stopping
Expert (Agility) charges dead in their tracks and breaking enemy morale.
Any ranged attack the character makes with a Crossbow or Expert (Strength)
Arbalest adds the Splitting Quality with a value equal to twice Dai-katanas wielded by the character gain the Impaling Quality
the number of Aim Actions made before the shot. to represent their focus as an anti-charge weapon. Should the Additionally, if they have a tower shield, it can be set up as a character deal a wound with an attack of opportunity against Secondary Action and used as cover. While behind the shield, a closing enemy, all enemies who witness this must roll a +10 the character can take a single Aim action as a Free Action if Panic Test. they do not move or reload during that Turn.
Knife Fighter
From Oblivion's Heart The character’s motions are so quick that their foes often don’t register To the last I grapple with thee; from Oblivion's heart I stab at thee; the knife until it’s too late. for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Expert (Agility)
Expert (Strength) The character can draw shortswords for free at any time without
If an attack made by the character wielding a trident inflicts a provoking attacks of opportunity and does not provoke them
wound, the enemy gains the Bleeding(1) condition regardless of when throwing daggers. The character can also choose to use the result of shock test. Additionally, any Trident the character their Agility bonus in place of their Strength bonus for the wields gains the Thrown (5/10/20) quality. If a thrown attack purpose of the Slashing quality when wielding daggers, tantos, with this weapon hits the target, the attack counts as if the or shortswords. When the character uses the Penetrate Armor trident had the Entangling quality, except it can be blocked Advantage using a tanto, dagger, or shortsword, they can add and inflicts damage as normal. 1d4 to their damage roll.
Halberdier Monster Hunter
The character becomes more effective with their halberds and can The character can use their pike more effectively and are able to
use them to knock opponents off of their mounts. defend themselves more efficiently against larger creatures.
Expert (Strength) Expert (Strength, Agility)
The character can choose to replace their halberd’s Splitting Pikes wielded by this character loses the Unwieldy quality and quality with the Crushing quality. Halberds the character wields gains the Splitting quality. Additionally, the Pikeman treats range becomes 3m. Additionally, after successfully resolving an creatures of size Large or above as one size category larger for Attack with a halberd against a mounted target, the character the purpose of Size To-Hit effects while wielding a pike, and can spend 1 SP to force them to make and succeed a Ride test treat their WT as being one lower. or fall off their mount, landing prone. Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds
Hammerblow If your group is using the alternate rules for Wounds
The character can use their hammer to rattle the most armored foes. defined in the Physical Health section in Chapter
Expert (Strength) 5, simply disregard the interaction with Wound
When the character lands a hit with a warhammer or maul they Threshold in the Monster Hunter talent. can cause their target to lose one Stamina Point. Alternatively, if the attack was an All Out Attack, they can instead force the Point Blank target to make an Endurance (+0) test which, on failure, causes The character is able to fight well at close range with a short bow. the target to gain the Dazed condition. The target may attempt Expert (Agility) one Endurance (+10) test as a Free Action on their Turn each When using a shortbow, the character never provokes attacks round to remove the condition. of opportunity when using it to make attacks within melee range of an enemy and can use the weapon to attempt to parry attacks. Shortbows the character wields gain Exploit Weakness. Additionally, the character can gain an advantage by normal means when using a shortbow against a target within the target’s melee range. 86




Power Draw Riposte
The character can aim their arrows with sufficient precision and The character’s reflexes are as sharp as their blade. strength to potentially send their targets sprawling. They can even Expert (Agility) make the bow itself a weapon in dire situations. The first Counter-Attack made by this character using a weapon
Expert (Strength, Agility) with the Dueling Weapon Quality does not count towards that
Before making an attack with a longbow the character can character’s maximum number of attacks that they can make choose to spend one Stamina point. If the attack hits the target per round. and deals damage (after mitigation) the target must make a Strength test or be knocked prone. Additionally, the character Simple, Yet Effective may use the longbow as if it were an Unwieldy wooden quarter- The faithful broadsword shaped the empire. As the weapon of choice staff in melee, and longbows they wield gain Exploit Weakness. of Talos and their Red Legions, it has a legacy that cannot be denied.
Expert (Strength, Agility)
Pugilist The character can reroll failed Combat Style tests made with a
The character is skilled in the art of unarmed martial combat and broadsword (or broadswords, if wielding two weapons) once can deal devastating blows to their target. per test.
Expert (Strength)
The character upgrades the damage die of their Natural Weapon Slinger's Wail
by one step and increases the Slashing or Crushing value of The character’s missile sings at it flies through the air; a note of Hand to Hand weapons by 1. Also, the character does not imminent death inciting terror in your enemies. suffer the -10 penalty for performing actions that require an Expert (Agility) open hand from the Hand to Hand Weapon Quality. When the character attacks with a sling while Hidden, characters who are unaware of them within the weapon’s short range must Red Legion Throw make a +0 Panic test.
The character is skilled in the use of the javelin and knows the value
of a well aimed throw. Staff Mastery
Expert (Strength, Agility) Through long hours of training your defense with a staff is instinctive.
When a character throws a Javelin and successfully causes Expert (Strength, Agility) damage to the target (after mitigation), the target location (either When the character takes the Defensive Stance action while a limb or the body) is Speared. A Speared hit location is treated wielding a quarterstaff, they can take their next defensive reacas crippled until the Javelin is removed, either as a Free Action tion as a Free Action. Additionally, quarterstaffs they wield inflicting the Bleeding(1) condition or as a Secondary Action gain Crushing. requiring a strength test, which if successful removes the spear without causing further harm. Viper’s Eye
The character uses a spear as a tool of precision and speed instead
If the Javelin is blocked instead, the shield is Speared. A speared of merely a brutish thrusting instrument. shield requires the wielder to spend one Stamina point in order Expert (Strength, Agility) to even attempt to block with the added weight of the javelin. Spears the character wields gain Slashing. Additionally, Precision
Removing the javelin from the shield requires the character to Strikes with a spear replace Slashing with Crushing and are only
succeed on a Strength test as a Secondary Action. made at a -10 penalty. When wielding a spear in two hands it loses Unwieldy, and its range is simply 3m.
Rip and Tear
Countless hours of training has perfected the characters technique The Whirling School
with Hooked weapons to the point that they can use them to find By practice, the character has mastered the bola and its various uses. weaknesses in their opponents' armor. Expert (Agility)
Expert (Strength, Agility) The character can use a bola to make a special Precision Strike
Hook Swords wielded by this character replaces the Slashing to attempt to wrap the bola around either the target's neck
(1) quality with the Slashing quality. Additionally, the penalties or their legs. Upon a successful hit, if the attack is against the inflicted by the Hooked trait are increased to -20 while the neck, the target loses 1 SP per round (does not stack). If the weapon is wielded by the character. attack is against the legs, then the target gains the immobilized condition. Either effect ends when the bola is removed, which can be attempted by the target or a character within 1m as a Primary Action by making a +0 Strength test. 87




r t aCial alentS
Argonian
Child of the Sap
This section contains additional Talents that are locked to the The Argonian is hardier than their peers, toughened by the blood various peoples of Tamriel. They each pertain to natural and of the marsh and the sap of the trees. cultural qualities that embody each of the races of men and mer, Adept (Any) and help represent the exemplary heroes and villains amongst The Argonian exchanges their Resist Disease trait for Immunity them. to Disease, and permanently gains +1 to their movement Speed. Note: A GM might choose to unlock these Talents Histskin naturally over the course of a campaign for all mem- The Argonian can call upon the reservoirs of Hist sap stored within bers of the party based on experience benchmarks; their glands to rapidly regenerate injury. or, alternatively, they will be available for purchase Expert (Any), Requires Child of the Sap exactly the same as the Core Talents. The Argonian doubles their swimming speed, and gains +30 to any Stealth or Athletics tests made while underwater. Additionally, once per Short Rest, the Argonian can immediately regenerate EB Health Points as a Free Action.
Bosmer
Nature’s Blessing The Bosmer is blessed by the Y’ffre, and is toughened to the deadly toxins and blights of the wild.
Adept (Any)
The Bosmer increases their Disease Resistance by an additional
25%, and increases their Resistance (Poison) trait by +1.
Lord of the Hunt
The Bosmer can blend into their surroundings, shimmering in and out of the terrain as the trees themselves work to conceal them from their prey.
Expert (Any), Requires Nature’s Blessing
Once per Short Rest, the Bosmer can attempt a Stealth test with +20 while in natural foliage or terrain. If successful, they gain the Invisible condition until they perform another action that would normally cause the Hidden status to be broken.
Breton
Altmer Lionheart
Blood of Aldmeris The Breton is steeled to magic, and taps deeper into their own merish The Altmer directly traces their unbroken family line to Aldmeris, blood to access yet more power. and is empowered by their lineage. Adept (Any)
Adept (Any) The Breton gains an additional Power Well (10) and increases
The Altmer receives an additional Power Well (10), and increases their Resistance (Magic) trait by +1. their Disease Resistance trait by an additional 25%.
Dragonskin
Highborn The Breton taps into ancient Merethic powers, drinking in the
The Altmer harnesses their pure elven ancestry to empower their powers of their ancestral enemies like a nourishing milk to slake
magic, as the Aldmeri were the fathers of magicka. their unquenchable thirst for magic.
Expert (Any), Requires Blood of Aldmeris Expert (Any), Requires Lionheart
Once per day the Altmer can rapidly meditate as a Cast Magic The Breton can spend a Stamina as part of a Free Action to gain
action to immediately regenerate 20 Magicka Points. the Spell Absorption (5) trait for one round. 88




Dunmer Khajiit
Ancestor’s Protection Eye of Night The Dunmer has paid great respect to their ancestors, and in return, Sharp claws and sharp eyes pave the way. their spirits smile upon them. Adept (Any)
Adept (Any) The Khajiit increases the size of their Natural Weapon damage
The Dunmer increases their Resistance (Fire) trait by 1. dice by one step (d4 becomes d6, d12 becomes 2d8, etc), and Additionally, once per long rest, the dunmer can cast Sanctuary can make a free Precision Strike with their first attack made at level 2 as a Free Action. The spell lasts for three rounds, costs while Hidden at night time or in total darkness. See Unarmed no Magicka Points, and requires no test to successfully cast. Combat on page 104 for details on Natural Weapons. Ancestor’s Wrath Eye of Fear The Dunmer has a special bond with their ancestor, who is capable Something about the eyes. Terrifying. Primal. Bestial. Filled with... of manifesting from beyond to lend their aid in battle. rage.
Expert (Any), Requires Ancestor’s Protection Expert (Any), Requires Eye of Night
Increase the Sanctuary spell gained from the Ancestor’s The Khajiit can, once per Long Rest, force a single target they Protection talent from level 2 to level 3. Additionally, once can see to take a Panic test with a -30 penalty to their Willpower, per long rest, the character can use a Secondary Cast Magic as a Free Action. Action to cast the Fire Cloak spell at level 2. The spell lasts for
Nord
three rounds, costs no Magicka Points, and requires no test to successfully cast. Sons of Skyrim The Nord is tough, haughty, and enduring, as their people are
Imperial
famed for. Red Diamond Adept (Any) The Imperial endures like the cornerstones of the White Gold Tower. The Nord increases both their Resistance (Frost) trait and their Unbreakable. Tough trait by 1.
Adept (Any)
The Imperial increases their bonus Stamina Points from Star Woad
of the West to 2 SP. The Nord can daub themselves with war paint, called Woad, that is blessed by Kyne, and grants them mystical warrior-powers. Imperial Luck Expert (Any), Requires Sons of Skyrim The Empire was founded on the blade, but was built with gold. The Nord can, as a Primary Action, apply a smear of ritually
Expert (Any), Requires Red Diamond prepared Woad war paint, which grants a Physical and Magical
The Imperial increases their bonus Stamina Points from Star of shield that protects against 5 points of damage for 3 Rounds the West to 3 SP. Additionally, any time the Imperial spends that refreshes for free each Round. After the third round, the LP or burns luck to increase the DoS of a test, the first LP they shield is no longer refreshed and dissipates once the shield HP spend or luck they burn on that test adds 2 DoS to the test is reduced to 0 or the character takes a Long Rest. instead of the usual 1.
The ritual necessary to prepare one dose of Woad paint requires
the Nord have access to natural plants, an open sky, and must be performed over a Long Rest as they beseech Kyne for her blessings in the battles to come. This dose of Woad paint must be applied before the character’s next Long Rest.
Orsimer
Wrothgarian
The Orsimer embodies the mountain: strong, tall, triumphant.
Adept (Any)
The Orsimer increases their Tough trait by 1, and increases the HP gained from their Resilient trait by 2 to a total of 5. 89




E R T
Malacath's Fury xpandEd acial alEnTs
The Orsimer can tap into the primal fury of Malacath.
Expert (Any), Requires Wrothgarian This section contains Talents for the expanded playable character
The Orsimer increases their bonus HP from their Resilient trait races found in Expanded Races on page 43. by yet another 2 (total 7).
Ayleid
Additionally, once per Long Rest, as a Free Action, the Orsimer can immediately heal themselves for EB Health Points then Birds of Prey increase their Strength Bonus and Resistance (Magic) trait by The Ayleids had a distinct bird motif, respecting their speed and EB / 2 (round down) for 1 minute. predatory nature, but also their nobility.
Adept (Any)
Redguard
The Ayleid gains +1 to their movement Speed and a +10 bonus High Men to their Power Well trait.
The men of Yokuda are unaffected by such trifling things as disease
or venom. They are above it. Lords of the Niben
Adept (Any) The Ayleids used the power of starlight to fuel their raids on the
The Redguard becomes Immune to Disease, and increases their ancient Nedes, eventually enslaving them. Resistance (Poison) trait by +1. Expert (Any), Requires Birds of Prey The Ayleid treats their Willpower Bonus as being 3 higher Adrenaline Burst instead of 2 higher when under direct starlight for the purpose Some Redguards revel in the thrill of combat to such a degree that of the Empowered by Starlight Trait. Additionally, when they their delight numbs them to mortal agony. use the Free Action from Empowered by Starlight, the Ayleid
Expert (Any), Requires High Men can instead choose to regenerate 15 Magicka or 8 Health Points.
The Redguard’s Adrenaline Rush power instead regenerates 2 Stamina Points immediately, and also heals the Redguard for 5 Health Points. Additionally, the Redguard ignores all Shock penalties from wounds until the Adrenaline Rush expires. 90




Falmer
Born of Ice
The Falmer, or Snow Elves, were dramatically attuned to the cold, more so than even the Nords, or the Atmorans that predated them.
Adept (Any)
The Falmer increases their Resistance (Frost) trait by 1. Additionally, any Frost enchantments or spell effects created or cast by a Falmer increase their frost-based effects by 1.
Legacy of the Snow Prince
The legend of the Snow Prince is the last great tale of the Falmer.
He conjured a great blizzard and lead a great battle against the
Nords, and although the Falmer lost, he made good on his pledge that many Nords would die that fateful day.
Expert (Any), Requires Born of Ice
Once per Long Rest, the Falmer can spend a Stamina Point as a Free Action to summon a miniaturized blizzard on themselves, which counts as a level 3 Frost Cloak that lasts for three Rounds. Additionally, as a ritual that must be performed during
Sload
a Long Rest, the Falmer can use 100 drakes worth of ritual materials, and spend 100 Magicka Points to invoke a blizzard Baleful Bloating in the immediate region, no matter the climate. The blizzard The Sload is swollen with Magicka. And fat. Lots of fat. is magical in nature and imposes a -20 on any tests reliant on Adept (Any) sight (including combat). Falmer are immune to all the effects The Sload increases their Power Well trait by 10 and adds 3 of the blizzard, which lasts for 1d12 + Personality Bonus hours, Health Points to their HP maximum. which should be rolled in secret by the GM.
Meticulous Planning
Maormer
The Sload have no word for “adventure.” The closest equivalent Shimmerskin term translates to “tragic disaster". The Maormer’s flesh flickers and shifts colour involuntarily, adapting Expert (Any), Requires Baleful Bloating to its surroundings with a mind of its own. During a Long Rest, the Sload can prepare for all contingencies
Adept (Any) by rolling a number of d100s equal to their Intelligence Bonus.
The Maormer increases their Power Well trait by +10 and Record these results. Each of these numbers can be substituted gains an additional +10 to the stealth bonus gained from their out as the result of any test the Sload, the Sload’s target, or the Chameleon Skin trait. Sload’s attacker makes before the roll is made. After a number is used, cross it off, and that number cannot be used until the Serpent-Sorcerer sload's batch of numbers is refreshed. These numbers persist The Maormer can form mental bonds with serpents. Their ancient until the Sload uses all of them or until they spend another magics and high wizards bind great sea serpents to their nobles’ Long Rest planning and generating a new batch of numbers. will, but for an adventurer, any snake will suffice as a companion.
Expert (Any), Requires Shimmerskin
The Maormer can, during a Long Rest, perform a ritual requiring “The Sload are a godless people, perhaps the most 50 drakes of ritual ingredients, and 30 Magicka Points to attempt hated in Tamriel. And the Sea Sload are even worse! to permanently bind a snake or serpent-like creature to their will. They employ depraved magic and have long coveted At the conclusion of the ritual, the Maormer and the serpent Summerset. They believe it once belonged to them. They make an Opposed Willpower test, where the Maormer scores pillage, release plagues. They’re horrible!” an additional Degree of Success for every additional 30 Magicka –Valsirenn Points spent on the ritual beyond the first 30. If the Maormer is successful, the serpent is bound to the Maormer’s will, their minds effectively fused. The serpent becomes a creature under the Maormer’s control, and gains the Bound trait. The Maormer gains the Mindlock (1) trait and has direct control of the snake. 91




t raitS Crawler Rather than walking, a character with this trait crawls. They halve their normal Speed (round up) and take no penalties for Traits are rules that reflect various natural facts about the charac- moving through difficult terrain. ter or certain abilities they possess. They include things such as the ability to fly, inherent physical weaknesses, personality traits, Dark Sight and so forth. They are typically the result of birth, upbringing, A character with this trait can see normally even in areas with or racial circumstance but may be gained through other means total darkness and never takes penalties for acting in areas with later in life, though rarely by choice or without the use of magic. dim or no lighting. Dawn-Cursed (X) Traits do not stack unless otherwise specified. If traits with Characters with this trait are fatally sensitive to sunlight. While an X value are applied to a target with an already existing in direct sunlight, the character suffers X damage per round instance of that trait, apply the highest value of X unless which ignores all damage mitigation. If the character covers otherwise specified. themselves completely with clothing and a hood with sufficient coverage, this damage is reduced to X per hour in the sunlight.
If the vampire is under full cover which would block out all
Amphibious sunlight, like a fully covered wagon or inside a building, they The character can breathe water and ignores the skill cap placed take no damage. on their combat rolls by their Athletics skill when fighting in water. Deaf
The character has the deafened condition while they have this
Bestial trait. See the Conditions section in Chapter 5 for rules on this The character has no need to make Survival skill tests in their condition. natural habitat, but they must test Willpower to avoid fleeing combat if the GM feels that it’s appropriate (for example, if the Disease Resistance (X%) creature would feel intimidated by its foe). Whenever a character with this trait would be infected by a common disease, roll a d100. If the roll is less than or equal to Blind X, the character doesn’t get the disease.
The character has the blinded condition while they have this
trait. See the Conditions section in Chapter 5 for rules on this Diseased (+/- X) condition. If a character with this trait deals at least 1 point of damage (after mitigation) with their natural weapons to a target without Bound the Diseased trait, then the affected target must test Endurance This creature is bound by the will of their master. They must +/- X or contract a common disease. obey the commands of their master, except they will always prioritize defending themselves. Additionally, if the bound Flyer (X) creature's master or their master's allies intentionally take hostile The character can fly. They have a Speed equal to X when flying. or harmful action against them for any reason, they immediately turn hostile and lose the bound trait. Frightening (X) Items with this trait use their creator’s Willpower score when Those who encounter this character must immediately make forced to roll any relevant test (except Combat Style). These a Panic (X) test. items are practically weightless, counting as having an effective ENC rating of 0. From Beyond The character is immune to the effects of disease, fear, toxins, Climber (X) and any mind-affecting magic (i.e. illusions). The character can climb walls and ceilings as if open ground. Their Climb Speed is now set to Xm. Immunity (*)
The character is immune to any effects of the type specified in
parenthesis. The character may have multiple instances of this trait for different effects *. 92




Natural Weapons (Type, Damage, Range)
The character with this trait has unique natural weapons of
some kind. The Type, Damage, and Range together specify the complete profile for the character’s natural weapons. This overrides the default natural weapons profile and they cannot be disarmed. Default Natural Weapons profiles can be found in Unarmed Combat on page 104. Natural Weapons cannot be enchanted. Power Well (X) Characters with this trait have more magicka than usual. The size of their Magicka Pool is increased by X. If the character would receive this trait twice, combine the X values.
Quadruped
Characters with this trait move up to twice their speed when
they use the Dash action and three times their speed when they use the Sprint stamina ability. Regeneration (X) Characters with this trait heal very quickly. They may make an Endurance test at the start of each round to heal X HP.
This does not count as magical healing unless applied by some
magical source. Resistance (*, X) Characters with this trait reduce damage of * type by X after any other mitigation and gain a +10 bonus per X to tests made to resist non-damaging effects of the listed type. Incorporeal In cases where the character is not making the * related test, Incorporeal characters are spirits, faintly visible and capable of but rather a * related roll is being made against one of their moving through objects. They gain the Flyer (Speed) trait and Characteristics, increase that characteristic by 10 times X for may use it to freely move through solid objects. They can be the purposes of resolving that roll. targeted by attacks, but they cannot suffer damage except from magic damage or damage from attacks with the Magic quality. Resist Normal Weapons (X) Characters with this trait are resistant to mundane weapons. Incorporeal characters do not normally affect the world, but they If the character suffers damage from a weapon/attack without can use magic and make attacks that are capable of damaging the Magic quality, reduce that damage by X after any other non-incorporeal beings. Attacks from Incorporeal characters mitigation. ignore all AR from any armor that does not have the Magic quality and cannot be blocked by shields without that quality. Running Out of Luck The character’s luck is running out. Whenever they would burn Natural Toughness (X) any amount of Luck, burn twice that amount. If the character does The character with this trait is naturally tough and reduces not have this much Luck remaining, just burn all remaining Luck. incoming damage of all types by X. This functions like AR for the purposes of reducing damage, but it does not count as armor. Savage The character treats weapons that they wield (including Natural Weapons) as if they had the Proven Weapon Quality. If the Weapon has the Primitive Quality, then the character treats the weapon as having neither Quality. 93




Silver-Scarred (X) Swimmer Any damage inflicted on a character with this trait after mitiga- The character’s Swim Speed is doubled. tion by an attack from a silver weapon is increased by X before calculating the effects of the damage. Telepathy (X) Characters with this trait can communicate with others teleSkeletal pathically. They are capable of “broadcasting” thoughts to a Characters with this trait have purely skeletal forms. Attempts to maximum number of characters equal to their WB within hit them with ranged weapons suffer a -20 penalty. Characters a number of meters equal to one hundred times their WB. with this trait also automatically gain the Undead trait as well They must have line of sight to the character to whom they are and are immune to the Burning (X) condition. broadcasting, unless the target character has this trait as well. Spell Absorption (X) Characters with this trait can make a Perception test as a Free
Characters with this trait absorb a portion of the magic directed Action to attempt to locate other characters with this trait within
at them to fuel their own magicka reserves. Whenever magic their broadcast range, though this test can be opposed by a from another source/character affects them, roll a d10. If the Willpower test if a character wishes to remain hidden. value is less than or equal to X, the magic has no effect on them; instead, they regain missing MP up to the cost of the magic. The strength X of this trait determines the complexity of the thoughts they can broadcast.
If a character with this trait would be affected by the Reflect
spell, then the effects of each should be resolved in the reverse Telepathic Strength order to which they were applied. X Maximum Message Complexity 1 A single word For example, if a character with this trait has the Reflect spell 2 A short sentence. effect applied to them after this trait is applied, then when the character is affected by another spell effect they would resolve 3 A full sentence. Reflect against that effect first, then Spell Aborption if the effect 4 Up to five sentences. is not reflected. 5 As many words as the character desires. 6 Images.
Strong Jaws
7+ Complex feelings and concepts. A Bite attack made by this character that deals damage automatically starts a Grapple test. The test to contest this Grapple This trait can stack by adding together values of X. is made against the original test made by the attacker. If the target Counter Attacks againt a Bite attack, the Counter Attack Thick Skull ignores the creature’s AR and Natural Toughness trait. Immune to Stun and Dazed. Stunted Magicka Vicious (X)
Characters with this trait do not regenerate magicka naturally The creature treats their SB as being X for the purposes of
and halve the benefits (round down) gained from Spell Restraint. resolving damage. This does not effect the character's Strength Characteristic Score.
Summoned
This creature or item has been conjured from another plane of
existence. Upon its death or destruction, it returns to where it came from immediately. Sun-Scarred (X)
Any damage inflicted on a character with this trait after mitigation by an attack that counts as sunlight is increased by X
before calculating the effects of the damage. If this character is exposed to normal sunlight they lose 1 SP each hour. Cloud cover or other such weather halves the rate of SP loss. The character must spend an hour in a dark place before they can remove levels of fatigue/regain SP lost in this manner. 94




Telekinesis (X) Weak Bones (X) Characters with this trait can move objects with their mind Reduce Wound Threshold by X. within a range of 10 * X meters. This can only be used to move fairly small objects (at most a large crate or barrel) at a speed of Weakness (*, X) about 1 meter per second (6 per round). Characters with this trait are weak to a certain damage or effect type. They increase damage of * type by X after any other mitThe character can also throw an object at an opponent. This is igation and suffer a -10 penalty per X to tests made to resist a Primary Action and a Ranged Attack, and it uses Mysticism non-damaging effects of this type. (Willpower) for the test. Any object used in this manner counts as an improvised weapon and can only be thrown a distance If this trait would stack for a single damage type, instead only of WB * 2 meters. apply the highest value of X. Different values of * damage type are considered different traits. Terrifying (X) Those who encounter this character must immediately make In cases where the character is not making the * related test, a Horror (X) test. but rather a * related roll is being made against one of their Characteristics, decrease that characteristic by 10 times X for Tough (X) the purposes of resolving that roll. Increase Wound Threshold by X. Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds found in Physical Health on page 108, replace the text for the Tough trait with "Character gains a +(10 * X) bonus to Shock Tests".
Undead
Characters with this trait are mere walking corpses. They do not breathe or require organs to function. They are immune to things such as disease, poison, passive wound effects, aging, fatigue, and a number of conditions including but not limited to dazed, deafened, and organ damage. Use common sense when deciding what can and cannot affect characters with this trait. The character cannot spend Stamina Points if doing so would bring their current SP to below 0.
Undying
Characters are free from most concerns of the living. They are immune to disease and the effects of aging. Unnatural Senses (*, X)
The character with this trait can perceive its surroundings using
additional and/or different senses than the usual. Their Senses allow them to detect the things specified by * within range of X meters (even through solid objects). If * is “all” then their Senses have been replaced entirely, and they can simply see “normally” through solid objects up to X meters away. Weak Bones (X) Reduce Wound Threshold by X. Weakness (*, X)
Characters with this trait are weak to a certain damage or effect
type. They increase damage of * type by X after any other mitigation and suffer a -10 penalty per X to tests made to resist non-damaging effects of this type. If this trait would stack for a single damage type, instead only apply the highest value of X. Different values of * damage type are considered different traits. In cases where the character is not making the * related test, but rather a * related roll is being made against one of their Characteristics, decrease that characteristic by 10 times X for the purposes of resolving that roll.
