In most adventures there is conﬂict, and this conﬂict is often physical. After all, the world of Nirn can be a dangerous place. Wars, strange monsters, criminals, mercenaries, and any number of other scenarios can all force a party to use violence to accomplish their goals, or simply force the party into dan-gerous situations. This chapter contains mechanics for resolving combat, as well as other game mechanics to handle the variety of situations the players might encounter during their adventures.
A Note on Time
The UESRPG divides time into two categories: narrative time and structured time. Narrative Time is meant to be used in any situations that do not demand the time-sensitive resolution of tasks. Functionally this means that almost any non-combat situation will use narrative time. In game terms, narrative time is a period in which the GM can freely advance time at any rate based on the needs of the story and the players. This could mean brieﬂy describing the party’s long journey across a vast desert, or playing out an important conversation minute by minute. 
Structured Time is used to handle time-sensitive events in which every second counts and the exact order of actions is crucial. Combat almost always takes place in structured time, which is what the rules of this chapter are intended for; though the GM could decide to handle it in narrative time instead.
COMBAT
The largest unit of structured time is called an encounter. An Encounter represents an entire sequence of dramatic events that make up a uniﬁed “block” of structured time that may be contained within sections of narrative time, or followed up by another encounter. Encounters focused on a particular combat scene are known as Combat Encounters.
Encounters are broken down into Rounds: periods of time in which characters take actions, representing roughly six seconds of “real” time. During a round the GM counts down from highest to lowest initiative, giving each character a Turn to act when their initiative step is reached, until every character has had a Turn. During a Turn, the active character spends at least 1 AP to perform an Action and resolves its eﬀects. Sometimes the rules will refer to initiative “steps,” which simply refer to individual initiative values in the order.
Effect Durations
Eﬀect durations are measured in rounds and end immediately after the initiative step on which they took eﬀect. For example, if an Orc is stunned for 2 rounds on their Turn, they remains-stunned until right after the end of their Turn 2 rounds later (assuming their Turn takes place at the same initiative “step” as it did originally).
Combat Overview
Combat encounters can be resolved by following these steps:
Step 1: Determine Surprise
If one or more characters aren’t expecting an attack, or aware of their attacker’s intentions, they have been surprised. The GM should determine which characters count as being surprised for the ﬁrst round of combat. Surprised characters do not roll 1d6 for initiative; they simply use their Initiative Rating. They also may only take reactions until after their ﬁrst Turn has passed. 
Step 2: Set the Scene
Before the characters can begin taking their turns, the GM should outline the parts of the scenario that they are aware of, including the combatants they face, the positions of everyone involved, and the environment they’re ﬁghting in. If the group is using a battle map or grid, this would be the time to set it up!
Step 3: Determine Initiative
To determine the order in which characters take their turns during each round of the combat, all characters involved must make an Initiative Roll. An Initiative Roll is made by roll-ing 1d6 and adding the character’s Initiative Rating. Use the character’s Initiative Rating and then Luck bonus (meaning PCs beat NPCs) to break ties, in that order. Further ties can be resolved by contested Luck Rolls or at the GM’s discretion. The GM rolls initiative for any NPCs involved and should roll once for larger groups of similar NPCs. If new combatants enter the picture, simply have them roll and take their place in the order as appropriate.
Step 4: Round Start
Starting with the character with the highest initiative, each character takes one Turn. At the start of the round, all char-acters replenish their AP. Then, during each Turn, the active character spends AP to perform combat actions and resolves their effects. Once their Turn is over, the character with the next highest initiative takes their Turn. This repeats until all characters have taken a Turn.
Optional Rule: Turn-Based AP Refreshing 
For an alternative strategic experience, your group can choose to play with this variant AP Refreshing ruleset. As combat starts, all characters start the ﬁrst round with their Maximum AP. Then, in all subsequent rounds, characters replenish their AP at the start of their Turn rather than at the start of the round.
Step 5: Round End
Once all characters have had a Turn, the round is over, regardless of the amount of AP any characters have remaining. Any eﬀects or Conditions that specify a duration of “until the end of the round” end now. 
Step 6: Encounter Ends
Repeat steps 4 and 5 until the combat is ﬁnished or the event that triggered the switch into structured time is resolved.
Mapping Combat
This chapter assumes players are using some sort of grid or battle map to track the positions of characters. For ease of use, each grid square in such a system should represent a square meter.  More details on using a combat grid, or advice for playing the game without one, can be found later in this chapter.
Action Types
Actions represent all the things that a character can do during an encounter. The maximum number of times that a character can act during a round is determined by their max AP. All non-free actions cost at least 1 AP unless otherwise stated.
Primary Actions can only be taken during the character’s own Turn. They are dedicated combat actions where the character is the instigator, and a character may take any number. An extended action is an Action that requires the use of more than one AP, which can cause it to require more than one Turn.
Secondary Actions can only be taken during the character’s own Turn or as reactions. They are combat actions that require less dedication from the character and can be taken somewhat reactively to battleﬁeld circumstances. A character may take any number of these. 
Reactions are actions that are taken to counter or resist other characters’ actions or other events that the character is aware of. Only one reaction attempt is permitted for each threat or event, but any number of reactions may be made per round (provided that the character has Action Points left for that round to spend).
Special Actions are a unique class of actions that are often taken when a character has gained Advantage in combat and has included the chosen Special Action in their Combat Style’s Special Advantages (page 69). Otherwise, Special Actions can be either primary/secondary actions or reactions, and they follow all the normal rules for an Action of their type.
Free Actions can be taken at any time during the combat round and cost no Action Points to activate; though the GM should keep in mind what is reasonable for a character to achieve in six seconds.
Multiple Action Turns
Because characters can take multiple primary or secondary actions on their Turn, it is possible that characters can use up all of their AP to create some interesting action combinations when their Turn arises. When declaring multiple actions on their Turn, the character must declare them individually, resolving other character’s reactions first before declaring and resolving any more.
Primary Actions
The following primary actions are all actions that can only be taken during a character’s own Turn. Unless otherwise noted, they cost 1 AP.
Attack
The character can make an attack with a melee or ranged weapon. A character may make no more than two total attacks in a single round. When attacking they can use one of three optional variations of this action. A player must declare if their character is choosing one of these variations before the attack test has been made.
•	 All Out Attack (melee only): The character makes a melee attack with a +20 bonus by spending an additional AP. This is not an Extended Action.
•	 Coup de Grâce: The character makes a killing blow against a helpless target. A helpless target is one who is either unconscious, both restrained and prone, or otherwise phys-ically incapable of defending themselves. The GM may rule that certain characters cannot be killed in this way depend-ing on the circumstances. This kills the target outright. For unarmed Coup de Grâce, refer to the Grappling rules.
•	 Precision Strike: A character attempting a precision strike is aiming to hit a particular part of their opponent’s body and thus suﬀers a -20 penalty on the attack test. If successful, the character may choose the hit location of that attack in addition to resolving any other eﬀects the attack would have.
Disengage
 The character can use this action to retreat from combat with an enemy. If they move out of an enemy’s engagement range during this Turn then the attack of opportunity reaction or other delayed actions/reactions, may not be taken against them.
Cast Magic
The character casts a spell that they know using the rules for spellcasting found in Chapter 6: Magic (page 125). This may be used to cast spells that count as attacks, but a character may make no more than two attacks in a single round.
Delay Turn
The character declares a set of circumstances in which they will act. The character then skips their Turn without spending 
AP and may insert their delayed Turn into the order as a free reaction if the conditions are met. If the delayed Turn is not taken before the character’s next Turn would occur, then the Action Points are lost entirely. 
Defensive Stance
Using this action grants the character +10 on any defensive tests made until their next Turn. Taking this action reduces the character’s Attack limit to 0 until their next Turn.
Secondary Actions
The following Secondary Actions are actions that can be taken during a character’s own Turn or as reactions for 1 AP.
Aim
A character can spend an Action Point to aim, gaining a +10 bonus to their next ranged attack, including spells with the Bolt form. This bonus can stack if the character takes this action multiple consecutive times before the next ranged or bolt attack, but only up to three times for a maximum bonus of +30. The “chain” of aim actions can stretch across rounds. This chain is broken and the bonus lost if the character makes an attack with another weapon or takes any actions or reactions other than to continue aiming or ﬁre the aimed weapon or spell. Once the aimed weapon is ﬁred, the bonuses from this action are reset to +0.
Cast Magic (Instant only)
The character casts a spell that they know using the rules for spellcasting found in Chapter 6. This may only be used to cast spells that have the Instant spell attribute.
Dash
The character can use this action in order to move up to their speed. If this is done on their Turn, this movement is added to their base movement for that Turn. This action can be used to allow a character to move several times their speed during a round.
Hide
The character can use this action to attempt to hide from foes. If anyone might detect them while they do this, they must make a Stealth skill test opposed by the Observe of anyone who might spot them. On success, they gain the Hidden condition.
Ready Weapon / Drink Potion
The character may draw, sheath, withdraw, or reload a weapon. This action may also be used to drink a potion, assuming it is accessible to the character, but this costs 2 AP instead. Some missile weapons may require several AP to reload, in which case this action must be extended.
Reactions
Reactions can be used at any time during the combat round in response to a threat or event that a character is aware of by spending an AP. Reactions can be triggered by other reactions: if this happens, resolve them however makes the most sense.
Attack of Opportunity
This reaction allows a character to take advantage of an opening to make a melee attack (max 2 attacks per round) against an opponent when they are vulnerable. Attacks of Opportunity are resolved before the action they are being made in reaction to is resolved. Any character may use a reaction to an Attack of Opportunity without interrupting their current action, but they must be able to see their target. An Attack of Opportunity may be triggered by the following:
•	Retreat: When an opponent voluntarily moves out of the character’s melee range without taking the Disengage action.
•	Approach: When an opponent moves closer to the char-acter within their melee range (such as from 3 meters away to 2 meters away against a 3m range weapon).
•	Spellcast: When an opponent casts a spell within their melee range (unless the spell counts as a melee attack).
•	 Standing Up: When a prone character stands up within their melee range without using the Arise action.
•	 Ranged Attack: When an opponent makes a ranged attack within the character’s engagement range.
•	 Ready: When an opponent readies a weapon, reloads a weapon, or drinks a potion within their melee range. If the opponent does so as a Free Action, it does not allow for an attack of opportunity.
Block, Parry, Evade
The character tries to defend against an incoming ranged or melee attack. See the Attacking & Defending section for details.
Counter-Attack
The character attempts to make a standard melee Counter-Attack (still subject to the two attack per round limit) in response to an attack from an opponent they are aware of through the use of their Combat Style skill. See Attacking & Defending.
Free Actions
Free actions can be performed at any time during the combat round and cost no Action Points. They include things like talking, signaling, observing one’s surroundings, dropping items, and so forth. Use common sense when deciding what is a Free Action.
Special Actions
Special actions reﬂect unique ways that characters can engage in combat, and can be taken as actions of their listed type during a combat roll. Alternatively, if a character has one of these special actions in their list of Special Advantages (page 69), it can be used as an advantage instead.
Arise
Secondary Action
Allows the character to use a momentary opening to roll back up to their feet, removing the prone condition without granting opponents the ability to make an attack of opportunity.
Bash
Primary Action
Character makes an Athletics or unarmed Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their Athletics, unarmed Combat Style, or Evade skill. If they win, their opponent is knocked back 1 meter, loses an AP, and must make an Acrobatics test to avoid falling prone. Target character cannot be of larger size and must be within 2 meters. 
Special Actions
Special actions reﬂect unique ways that characters can engage in combat, and can be taken as actions of their listed type during a combat roll. Alternatively, if a character has one of these special actions in their list of Special Advantages (page 69), it can be used as an advantage instead.
Arise
Secondary Action
Allows the character to use a momentary opening to roll back up to their feet, removing the prone condition without granting opponents the ability to make an attack of opportunity.
Bash
Primary Action
Character makes an Athletics or unarmed Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their Athletics, unarmed Combat Style, or Evade skill. If they win, their opponent is knocked back 1 meter, loses an AP, and must make an Acrobatics test to avoid falling prone. Target character cannot be of larger size and must be within 2 meters. 
Character makes a Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their Evade or Combat Style (if wielding a shield). If the target loses, they become blinded for 1 round. The character must reasonably have access to some way to blind their opponent (thrown sand or rocks, for example).
Disarm
Primary Action
Character makes an Athletics or unarmed Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their unarmed Combat Style or Athletics skill. If the target of the disarm attempt loses,  the character may choose to either take the target’s weapon if they have a free hand or ﬂing the target’s weapon 1d4 meters in a random direction. Target cannot be of larger size and must be within 2 meters. Cannot disarm natural weapons.
Feint
Primary Action
Character attempts a Combat Style or Deceive test against an opponent’s Observe or Combat Style within a 2m range. If successful, they treat their next melee attack against the target as if they were Hidden. This eﬀect only applies if the attack occurs before the end of the character’s current Turn.
Force Movement
Primary Action
Character makes a Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their Combat Style or Athletics skill. If they win, they may move themself and their opponent up to three meters in any direction (they must both move in the same direction and the same amount) as the character shifts the location of the ﬁght. Target character must be within melee range.
Resist
Secondary Action
Character makes an Athletics or unarmed Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their Athletics or unarmed Combat Style skill. If they win, they may escape being restrained, grappled, or blinded.
Trip
Secondary Action
Character makes an Athletics or unarmed Combat Style test which their opponent may oppose with their Athletics, unarmed Combat Style, or Evade skill. If they win, their opponent falls prone. Target character cannot be of larger size and must be within 2 meters. 
Attacking & Defending
Combat is resolved as an exchange of blows between two charac-ters. This exchange is simulated by the Combat Roll, in which a pair of attack and defense tests are compared. 
Step 1: Attack
The attacker ﬁrst chooses their target, weapon, and combat style for the attack before making the attack test and applying any relevant circumstantial modiﬁers. Weapons not included in the character’s combat style are made at the standard untrained -	20 penalty for all attack and defense tests.
•	Melee Weapon Attacks: The attacker makes a Combat Style test using either Strength or Agility against a target within the range of their weapon.
• Ranged Weapon Attacks: The attacker makes a Combat Style test using Agility against a target within the range of their weapon.
• Cast Magic Attacks: The attacking caster makes a skill test with the skill corresponding to the school of the spell.
Step 2: Defend
The defender then picks their method of defense and combat style before making the defense test. A character must be aware of an attack to defend against it, and must choose to defend before the attacker has rolled.
•	Evade: The defender rolls an Evade test (Agility).
•	Parry: Melee weapons or shields may be used to parry melee attacks. The defender makes the Combat Style test using Strength or Agility.
•	Block: Shields may be used to block ranged or melee attacks. The defender makes a Combat Style test using Strength.
•	Counter-Attack: The characters both attempt to strike the other while parrying their opponent’s blows. The defender also makes a melee attack, using the rules above. Both characters count as “attackers” in step 3.
Step 3: Roll Tests & Determine Result
If one character is able to gain a signiﬁcant advantage over their opponent in melee, they are said to have gained an Advantage. Note that if a defender does not try to defend, or cannot do so, they are treated as having automatically failed. 
•	Both characters fail: Neither attack nor defense resolves.
•	1 character fails: The winner gains an advantage (if melee).
•	Attacker wins: The attack is successful, the attacker chooses how to utilize their advantage, and resolves it.
•	      Defender wins: The defense is successful, the defender chooses how to utilize their advantage and resolves it.
•	Both characters pass: No characters gain an advantage.
•	  Attack vs. Block: The defender blocks the attack regardless of attacker degrees of success. Resolve the block using the rules in Step 4 as if the defender won.
•	    Attack vs. Parry or Evade: The defense is negated if the attacker has more degrees of success. Resolve the attack.
•	 Counter-Attack: Whichever character achieves more degrees of success hits the other. If both characters achieve the same degrees of success, then neither the Attack nor the Counter-Attack resolve.
Critical Success/Failure
If one character critically succeeded, treat it as if they succeeded with more DoS than their opponent (if their opponent suc-ceeded at all). They also gain an advantage. If one character rolls a critical failure, and their opponent passed, then their opponent counts as having critically succeeded. If one character critically succeeds and the other fails, or one succeeds and one critically fails, then the character who succeeded gains two advantages, which can stack if applicable. If both sides roll a critical success or failure, then no advantage is gained, and neither attack nor defense resolves.
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds 
If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds found in Physical Health later in this chapter, then an attack resulting in a critical success causes a wound to the hit location of the attack.
Step 4: Resolve Attack & Advantages Finally, resolve the attack based on the result.
Attacker Won 
The attack hits the target and deals damage. If the target’s armor values diﬀer across hit locations, then check to see where it hit using the ones digit of the attack roll or a d10 (count 10 as 0). (You can often skip this step entirely or delay it until it is necessary).
1-5=Body;6=Right Leg; 7=Left Leg; 8=Right Arm; 9=Left Arm; 10=Head.
Next, resolve any advantage gained from the combat roll (see the next page). Ranged attackers and spells cannot gain or utilize advantage. Then roll the damage of the attack and subtract the Armor Rating (AR) of the hit location struck. Reduce the target’s HP by the remaining amount. Some types of AR only mitigate certain types of damage. If the damage dealt after reduction exceeds the target’s Wound Threshold, the attack has also caused a wound. See Physical Health for details.
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds 
If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds found in Physical Health later in this chapter, then the attack instead causes a Wound if it brings the target to 0 HP or if the attack is a Critical Success and causes the target to take Damage.
Defender won
If the defender won an advantage, resolve it ﬁrst:
Evade: If an attack is evaded it is negated entirely. The character may move up to 1 meter in any direction for free. This movement does not provoke Attacks of Opportunity.
Parry: If an attack is parried it is negated entirely.
Block: If an attack is blocked, roll the damage of the attack. If the damage exceeds the shield’s Block Rating against that damage type, then the character takes the full damage to their shield arm. Otherwise no damage is taken. Magic damage treats BR as half (round up) unless there is a magic BR.
Should there be multiple defenders against a single attack, only one defender gains a defensive advantage.
Advantage
Characters with advantage may utilize it in the following ways:
•	Precision Strike (attack only): Choose the hit location of the attack.
•	Penetrate Armor (attack only): Treat full armor as partial and partial as unarmored for the purposes of resolving an attack. This does not aﬀect AR.
• Press Advantage (attack only): Character gains a +10 to their next melee attack against the opponent within 1 round.
• Forceful Impact (attack only): The character can apply the Damaged(1) quality to one armor piece or shield on the hit location of the attack.
•	Overextend (block/evade/parry only): The opponent’s next attack test within 1 round is made at a -10 penalty.
•	Overwhelm: Your attack or defense engages your opponent’s attention completely. The opponent cannot take attacks of opportunity until the attacking character’s next Turn.
• Special Advantage: Immediately take a special advantage that is listed in the character’s Combat Style. Ignore the AP cost, or automatically win any opposed roll involved.
Unusual Combat Scenarios
There are several odd combat scenarios characters may ﬁnd themselves in. 
Climbing
A climbing character has all of their combat skill tests limited by their Athletics skill rank. Characters are limited to ﬁghting with a single limb, unless they have extras.
Slippery Surfaces
A character ﬁghting on slippery or wobbling surfaces has all combat tests limited by their Acrobatics skill (if they have a higher Combat Style rank, they treat it as their Acrobatics rank instead). If the character fails a combat roll in these circum-stances, they must pass an Acrobatics test or fall prone.
Swimming
A swimming character has their combat tests limited by their Athletics skill (if they have a higher Combat Style rank, they treat it as their Athletics rank instead). Attacks deal half damage.
Holding your Breath
A character can hold their breath for 12 seconds (2 rounds in combat) per Endurance Bonus they have.
This duration is doubled if the character does nothing but hold their breath (no action or movement allowed).
For every round beyond the character’s Endurance Bonus holding their breath, the character gains a temporary level of fatigue until they die or regain access to fresh air, after which the temporary fatigue is removed at a rate of 1 per round.
Swinging or Jumping
A character swinging or jumping into (or out of) combat has their combat tests limited by their Acrobatics skill (if they have a higher Combat Style rank, they treat it as their Acrobatics rank instead). If the character fails a combat roll they must pass an Acrobatics test or fall prone and suﬀer appropriate fall damage.
Melee Combat
Melee combat is any combat that happens within several meters, where participants ﬁght either with wielded or natural weapons. The melee weapons a character can use are listed as part of their Combat Style skills. 
Melee Combat Circumstance Modifiers
Like all tests, tests made in melee combat should always be subject to diﬃculty based on the environment or circumstances in which the combat is happening. Disadvantageous circum-stances can be rated in a simple scale by the GM and should not usually be worse than -30. The table below provides the scale and some examples.
Melee Combat Circumstance Modifiers ( Modifier => Common Examples)
Minor Disadvantage (-10) => Fighting in poor visibility.
Disadvantage (-20) => Fighting from lower ground or prone. 
Major Disadvantage (-30) => Fighting blind.
Mounted Combat
Mounted combat functions like normal combat, but with a few key diﬀerences:
•	     Mounted characters can evade ranged attacks but only while moving. They cannot evade melee attacks (except those from other mounted characters), though their mount can.
•	     Mounted characters may parry or Counter-Attack in response to attacks against their mount.
•	     Mounted characters use their mount’s Speed.
•	     The GM may rule that ranged attacks that miss the char-acter or their mount hit the other target instead.
Multiple Opponents
Facing multiple opponents can be dangerous. While a character suﬀers no direct penalties for doing so, they can soon become swamped and run out of action points with which to defend themself. Remember that once all their AP for a round have been expended the character is treated as having failed their defense roll against any subsequent attacks, meaning they quickly becomes vulnerable to the others.
Dual Wielding
Some characters ﬁght with two one handed weapons at once as a part of their Combat Style and may choose to attack, parry, or Counter-Attack with either one.
Cover
Cover is used by characters to obstruct attacks against them, either in ranged or close combat. This occurs by either physically blocking a blow or by obscuring the exact location of the target.
If the character is incapable of seeing their target, they simply cannot attack them unless they have another way of knowing that they are there. Otherwise they suﬀer a circumstance penalty to attack targets who are trying to use cover that their attack cannot penetrate based on the GM’s judgment of the level of the cover.
If the target is protected by cover that the attack can penetrate with relative ease, the attacker suﬀers no penalty to hit but rolls twice and chooses the lower value for damage.
Improvised Weaponry
In certain cases a character might ﬁnd themselves forced to ﬁght using improvised weaponry. Attacks with improvised weapons suﬀer the usual -20 untrained penalty unless the character’s Combat Style includes improvised weapons. The table below provides a set of guidelines for the GM.
Improvised Weaponry Guidelines ( Type => Damage => Range)
Tiny => 1d4 => 1m (gain Small quality)
Small => 1d6 => 1m
Medium => 1d8 => 2m
Large => 1d10 => 3m
Huge => 1d12 => 4m
The GM should feel free to give certain improvised weapons appropriate weapon qualities based on the type of object.
The GM should feel free to give certain improvised weapons appropriate weapon qualities based on the type of object.
Unarmed Combat
Unarmed combat is when a character ﬁghts using their natural weapons. Characters are always capable of attempting to ﬁght in this manner, even if they do not have unarmed combat as part of their Combat Style. Characters attempt a Combat Style test using Strength or Agility with the standard -20 penalty for using an untrained skill, if applicable. 
A character’s natural weapons use the proﬁle speciﬁed below unless the character has the Natural Weapons (*) trait (which overrides the default proﬁle). If a character has a Combat Style that includes unarmed combat, that skill can be used for attacks with the character’s natural weapons. Natural weapons ignore rules regarding one, two, or hand and a half weapons, and cannot be disarmed. Natural Weapons cannot be enchanted.
Default Natural Weapon Profiles
Type => Damage => Range
Punchess/Kicks => 1d4 => 1m
Claws => 1d4; Slashing => 1m
Parrying/Counter-Attacking while Unarmed
If an unarmed combatant is facing an opponent with a weapon with a longer range and they are within their own engagement range, then they can attempt to parry that weapon’s attacks or Counter-Attack. Otherewise melee attacks cannot be parried  or countered by unarmed characters.
Grappling
In place of making a normal attack a character can choose to attempt to grapple their opponent. This requires a Combat Style test (the style must include unarmed combat) opposed against either a Combat Style (with unarmed), Athletics, or Evade test. On success, the target gains the restrained condition. The target may attempt to escape by using the resist action. On success they break free. 
Characters suﬀer a -30 penalty when attempting to grapple characters of larger size than them, and they cannot grapple characters of two or more sizes larger. While they have an oppo-nent restrained, the character may not move but may take the following actions (each is a primary action that costs 1 AP):
•	Takedown: The character may render their victim, and themself, prone. They suﬀer no prone penalties in relation to any tests made against their target.
•	Move: The character may move themself and their victim a number of meters up to their Strength bonus in any direction.
•	Attack: The character may make a normal attack against their restrained victim, who cannot defend themself. They must use a weapon with a 1m range or less. If the target is both prone and restrained and the character is armed, this can be a coup de grâce. If the character is unarmed, then they can choose to instead cause the target to lose 1 Stamina point.
Ranged Combat
Ranged combat is any form of combat that happens at a distance with weapons which must be shot, thrown, or slung at their target. The ranged weapons a character can use are listed as part of their Combat Style skills.
Ranged attacks are resolved similarly to melee attacks, except they cannot be parried or Counter-Attacked. Ranged attack-ers cannot gain or utilize advantage. Ranged weapons have  unique attributes that distinguish them from melee weapons:
Range for ranged weapons is deﬁned in terms of three numbers instead of just one, representing the maximum close, eﬀective, and long ranges of the weapon. Attacking targets in close range provides a +10 bonus to attack tests with the weapon, while attacking targets at long range imposes a -20 penalty.
Reload represents the number of AP required to reload a weapon which ﬁres ammunition. This requires the use of the ready action.
Ranged Combat Circumstance Modifiers
Like all tests, tests made in ranged combat should always be subject to diﬃculty based on the environment or circumstances in which the combat is happening. Disadvantageous circum-stances can be rated in a simple scale by the GM and should not usually be worse than -30. The table below provides the scale and some examples.
Ranged Combat Circumstance Modifiers ( Modifier => Penalty )
Minor Disadvantage (-10) => Firing in light wind
Disadvantage (-20) => Firing in moderate wind, target prone
Major Disadvantage (-30) => Firing in heavy wind or low visibility
Firing while Mounted
A character can use ranged weapons even while mounted, how-ever their Combat Style skill is limited by the Ride skill of the personal controlling the mount (if their Combat Style rank exceeds their Ride skill rank, use their Ride skill rank instead). 
Area of Effect Attacks
Some ranged attacks, typically spells, aﬀect an area. Area of eﬀect attacks that cause damage can only be defended against by evading or blocking and only if the character is aware of the incoming attack. 
On a successful Block, the character halves the incoming damage (round up) before resolving the eﬀects. On a successful evade, the character may move a single meter in any direction as normal without provoking any Attacks of Opportunity. If this would carry them outside the range of the area of eﬀect, they are not aﬀected.
Area of eﬀect attacks are resolved against the body.
Combat Example
This page contains an example of a short combat exchange using the rules discussed thus far:
The Scene
Deep in a frozen cave in the northern reaches of Skyrim, a lone hero squares off against a mighty troll. The hero is lightly armored, wielding only a simple broadsword and shield.
Round 1
Both characters roll initiative. The troll rolls an 8, and the hero rolls a 12. Both characters have 3 maximum Action Points.
The hero has the first Turn, and moves forward a few meters so that they are within their two meter melee range (determined by their broadsword’s range stat) of the troll. They decide to take the attack action (1 AP), against which the Troll reacts by Counter-Attacking (1 AP). The hero rolls a Combat Style [Nord Champion] test with a +30 bonus (for a TN of 75) due to their rank in the skill. The troll also rolls their own attack test. 
The hero passes with 4 degrees of success (roll of 43), and the troll passes with 2 degrees of success (roll of 26). No advantage is gained, but the hero is able to land a hit as the two exchange blows (due to rolling higher DoS). They resolve the effects of the hit against the troll’s body (due to the 3 in their roll) and rolls damage. The troll takes a total of 8 damage from the strike.
At this point one character has attacked, and the other reacted, so both characters have spent 1 AP. It is still the Hero’s Turn.
The hero decides to press the attack, and makes another attack, this time they go all out (2 AP for an All Out Attack, giving them a +20 bonus to their attack) and the troll attempts a Counter-Attack (1 AP). The hero makes a mistake and opens themself up, failing their attack test while the troll still manages to roll 6 degrees of success (roll of 61) on their attack test. Because the hero failed while the troll succeeded, the troll not only lands a blow but gains an advantage. The troll utilizes this advantage to knock the hero to the ground, taking the trip special action and auto-winning the opposed roll to render the hero prone (this costs 1 AP). They then resolve the damage from the hit, and the hero takes 9 damage from the blow.
At this point the hero is prone, is out of AP, and their opponent is also out of AP. The round ends, and a new round begins...
Round 2
The hero takes the first Turn, having higher initiative. They use half of their total speed in movement in order to stand up, and the troll takes advantage of this opening to make an attack of opportunity (1 AP). The hero is injured, and so opts to play defensively, raising their shield in an attempt to block the attack (1 AP). The troll passes their attack test with 4 degrees of success, and the hero passes their defense test with only 3, but this is still enough for them to interpose their shield between their body and the blow. The troll rolls damage, and the 8 damage is not enough to overcome the BR of the hero’s shield, so the blow slides off harmlessly... 
The hero, now standing, presses the attack...

PHYSICAL HEALTH
During the course of the players’ adventures, it is very likely that they will suﬀer injury of some kind. The following sections explain how to handle damage, fatigue, wounds, and death.
Damage & Hit Locations
Damage represents the ability of an attack to harm a character. Attacks against a character always strike a particular hit location, and the damage of that attack is reduced by the Armor Rating (AR) of that hit location. The Hit Location of an attack is usually determined by the 1s digit of the attack roll, but can also be determined by rolling 1d10 (counting 10 as 0). The characters Health Points (HP) are then reduced by the remaining amount.
Hit Locations
1-5=Body;6=Right Leg; 7=Left Leg; 8=Right Arm; 9=Left Arm; 10=Head
Damage Types
The above rules hold true for all physical attacks and physical armor. However, some attacks and eﬀects can deal other types of damage that can only be resisted with certain types of armor. Broadly, damage can be divided into two overall types:
Physical Damage
Physical damage represents physical cuts, jabs, and blows that harm a character through force of impact or blood loss (or both). All normal weapons deal physical damage, and physical damage is reduced by normal AR.
Magic Damage
Magic damage represents damage dealt by magical or elemental forces, such as burns from a ﬁre ball spell. Poison is included in this category, though it is not always magical. There are sub-types of magic damage, each reduced by a corresponding armor type (and also reduced by generic magic AR). 
Magic Damage Types
(Any) => Magic AR; Magic => Magic AR; Fire => Fire AR; Frost => Frost AR; Shock => Shock AR; Poison => Poison AR; Shadow => none.
Resolving Magic Damage vs Specific Damage
When resolving speciﬁc damage types against resistance or weak-ness traits, the more speciﬁc value for the trait takes precedence.
For example: Jefe (pronounced “Geoff”) of the imperial guard is fending off a horde of zombies as they fall upon the city gates. Zombies have Resistance (Magic, 1) and Weakness (Fire, 3). Jefe successfully casts Fire Bolt and rolls 5 for damage. When the spell affects the zombie, the Weakness (Fire, 3) trait is applied to the damage without applying the resistance to magic resulting in a total of 8 fire damage being applied.
Death
If a character is reduced to 0 Health Points remaining, then they fall unconscious. A character who is unconscious at 0 HP must pass an Endurance test at the end of each of their turns. If they fail a number of tests in excess of their Luck bonus while unconscious, then they die. Taking damage at least once causes the character to fail the next test. If an eﬀect would Stabilize them (this can be done with a Survival or Profession [Medicine] skill test and a healer’s kit) or bring them above 0 HP, then they stop testing.
Wounds
Wounds represent devestating injuries caused by more damaging attacks, and not just simple cuts and bruises. If a character ever takes damage from a single attack (including enchantments and/or poisons) in excess of their Wound Threshold (WT), then they take a wound. Record the amount of damage and hit location, then follow these steps:
Shock Effects
First, the character must make a special Endurance test known as a Shock Test, which represents how well the character fares against the initial eﬀects.
•	 If the wound is to the body, the character loses an Action Point. If they have none remaining, they begin the next round with one less. If they fail the shock test then they also suﬀer the crippled body condition.
•	 If the wound is to a limb, the character suﬀers the crippled limb condition (blows to the head instead stun for 1 round). If they fail the shock test, then they also suﬀer the lost limb condition (lost ear or lost eye for the head).
If the wound was caused by magic damage, the following applies:
•	 If the wound is by an attack which includes fire damage, the character also must pass a Strength or Agility test or gain the Burning (1) condition.
•  If the wound is from an attack which includes magic, frost, or poison damage, the character also loses a Stamina point.
•  If the wound is from an attack which includes shock damage, the character also loses Magicka points equal to the damage inﬂicted.
• If the wound is from an attack which includes multiple magic damage types, the type that contributed the most damage determines this eﬀect. In case of a tie, the attacker chooses which eﬀect is applied.
Optional Rule Note: Turn Based AP Refreshing 
If you’re using the alternate ruleset for AP refreshing, modify the text in the body Shock Eﬀect from “they begin the next round with one less” to “they begin their next Turn with one less”.
Passive Effects
After the shock test has been resolved, the character suﬀers a -20 to all tests and a -2 to future initiative rolls until the wound is fully healed. The character has 30 seconds (5 rounds) before they drop to 0 HP through blood loss. These eﬀects can be removed by ﬁrst aid (a Survival or Profession [Medicine] skill test must be performed, which takes 1 Turn and requires a healer’s kit or other supplies), or delayed with magical healing (see below).
Optional Rule: Alternate Wounds 
If your group prefers less bookkeeping and a more forgiving experience, you can use this rule instead of the standard rules for Wounds: 
Instead of a character taking a Wound when they take damage in excess of their WT, they take a wound if  they ever take damage from a critical success on an attack or if an attack reduces them to 0 Health Points.
Healing
There are two means by which characters can heal damage and wounds which have been dealt to them: natural healing, and magic healing. 
Restoring HP
Both magical and natural healing can restore missing HP. 
Magical Healing
Magical healing will always specify an amount of missing HP that it restores, and this happens instantly unless otherwise noted. 
Natural Healing
Characters naturally regenerate a number of missing HP equal to their Endurance bonus each time they take a long rest as long as they have no untreated wounds. This amount is doubled if the character is not doing anything strenuous and is focused entirely on healing themselves (or if another person is caring for them).
Healing Wounds
In order for a character to begin to heal wounds, those wounds must be treated ﬁrst. If a wound is not treated within a number of days equal to the character’s Endurance bonus, the charac-ter becomes Maimed: any body parts crippled by the wound become crippled permanently and count as being lost.
Healing Untreated Wounds
Characters cannot regenerate HP naturally while they have untreated wounds. In addition to restoring HP, magical healing done while the character is wounded temporarily removes the passive effects and forestalls unconsciousness for a number of rounds equal to the amount healed. If a charac-ter ever heals to full HP while they have an untreated wound, they become maimed as the wound has healed improperly.
Treating Wounds
A wound can be treated by a successful Profession [Medicine] test, which takes approximately an hour. Once a character’s wound(s) have been treated, they can begin to heal naturally again. Treating a wound related to the Crippled Condition can only be done once per long rest. If this test results in a dramatic failure, the limb immediately becomes Maimed.
Curing Wounds
Once a wound has been treated it can be properly healed. After treatment if a character regenerates HP (by magical or natural means) equal to or in excess of the damage that caused the wound, then the wound and all of its eﬀects are removed. The one exception is that characters cannot heal lost limbs in this fashion.
Conditions
Conditions are things that externally aﬀect the character and their capabilities instead of features of the character’s nature. 
Bleeding (X)
Reduce Wound Threshold by 1. At the end of the character’s next Turn, they take X damage (bypass AR/resistance); then X is reduced by 1. If the character regains HP from any source, subtract the total HP regained (including HP that would go beyond the character’s maximum HP) from X.
Bleeding can also be reduced by making a Profession [Medicine]  +0 skill test and using a Healer’s Kit. Reduce X by the DoS of the test. The Healer’s Kit is not consumed in the process.
If X ever becomes 0, the Bleeding condition is removed.
If the Bleeding(X) condition would be inﬂicted on a character that already has a Bleeding condition, the value of each is added together and replaces the current Bleeding condition.
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds 
If your group is using the optional rule for wounds, replace the text “Reduce Wound Threshold by 1.” with “Characters take a -10 penalty to Shock Tests.”.
Blinded
The character loses all vision and suﬀers the following penalties:
•	                     Cannot see anything.
•	                     Suﬀers a -30 to tests beneﬁtting from sight.
•	                     Automatically fail any tests that rely solely on sight.
Burning (X)
The target is engulfed in ﬂames, with the intensity of the ﬁre determined by a number X. 
•	                     Start of Turn: At the end of each of their turns, a burning character suﬀers a single hit of X ﬁre damage to the appro-priate hit location (body is the default). Then increase X by 1.
•	                     Stacking Burning: If a second instance of burning is inﬂicted on a character, simply combine the two X values.
•                      Taking Action: A burning character must pass a Willpower test with a -20 penalty at the beginning of a Turn in order to attempt any action other than putting out the ﬁre.
•	                     Putting It Out: A burning character can attempt to extin-guish the ﬂames on their Turn by spending an Action Point and making an Strengrh or Agility test with a +20 bonus and a -10 penalty for every point of the X value beyond
1.	The burning character becomes prone and, if the test succeeds, loses the burning condition.
Chameleon (X)
A character with this condition blends into their environment. Sight based tests to detect this character are made with a -X penalty. Only apply the highest value version of this condition if a character would receive it more than once.
Crippled Body Part
A piece of the character’s body has been rendered temporarily useless. Multiple instances of this condition can aﬀect a character at once as long as each aﬀects a diﬀerent hit location and/or the body parts associated with that hit location. Any body part that has been crippled suﬀers all the same penalties as if it had been lost. Use Lost Eye or Lost Ear if the head location has been crippled and the Organ Damage condition if the body location has been crippled.
Dazed
The character gains one less Action Point at the beginning of each round, to a minimum of one.
Deafened
The character loses all hearing and suﬀers the following penalties:
•	                     Cannot hear anything.
•	                     Suﬀers a -30 to tests beneﬁtting from hearing.
•	                     Automatically fail any tests that rely solely on hearing.
Entangled
The character makes all Combat Style tests with a -20 penalty and their movement speed is halved (round up).
Fatigued
When a chracter gains a level of fatigue, they acquire the Fatigued condition. If they gain additional levels of fatigue, the eﬀects worsen. Fatigue is most typically gained when a character falls below 0 SP or spends/loses SP when they are at 0.
Fatigue Effects
Fatigued (1) => -10 penalty to all tests.; Exhausted (2) =>-20 penalty to all tests. ; Drained (3) => -30 penalty to all tests.; Unconscious (4) => Characters falls unconscious ; Death (5+) => Character dies
Frenzied
The character is ﬂung into an uncontrollable rage. Frenzied characters gain the following rules:
•	                     Must attempt to attack the nearest person or creature in melee combat each Turn if able, using only All Out Attacks.
•	                     If not within range of a potential target, the character must move toward the nearest potential target. They may not attempt to ﬂee the ﬁght.
•	                     Increase WT by 3 and SB by 1.
•	                     Suﬀer a -20 penalty to all skill tests based on anything except Strength, Agility, or Endurance.
•	                     Gain an extra SP, which can exceed their SP maximum.
•	                     Immune to the eﬀects of the stunned condition, fear, and passive wound eﬀects.
Once the encounter has ended, the character snaps out of their frenzied state and loses 2 SP (this cannot kill them). The char-acter can also test Willpower at a -20 as a Secondary Action during combat to attempt to snap out of frenzy, which ends the condition.
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds 
If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds, disregard the WT increase in this bullet point.
Hidden
The character is hidden from enemies and moving stealthily. Characters must spend 2 meters of their movement for the round for each 1 meter that they actually move while hidden, and they cannot Dash. Enemies cannot attempt to defend themselves against the attacks of hidden characters, but attacking causes a character to lose this condition immediately afterwards.
If a hidden character would enter line of sight of at least one character from whom they have not previously hidden, they must make a Stealth test opposed by that character’s Observe. On success, or if they achieve more degrees of success, they remain hidden. Otherwise that character becomes aware of them.
Immobilized
Immobilized characters cannot move. They may still attack and take other actions and can defend themselves.
Invisible
Invisible characters cannot be seen. Characters fail all sight related tests related to spotting the Invisible character and attack them at a -30 penalty, assuming they can guess where the character might be in the ﬁrst place.  
Lost Body Part
The character loses a part of their body. A character can have multiple instances of this condition at once, each aﬀecting a diﬀerent body part. If an attack would hit a body part that has been entirely lost, the attack hits the body location instead. This condition applies additional penalties that vary based on the body part. In the case of the head, there is a choice between  an ear or an eye (GM’s decision).
Lost Ear
The character has had their ear removed or destroyed and their hearing damaged. They suﬀer the following penalties:
•	                    All tests that rely on hearing are made with a -20 penalty.
•	                    If both ears are lost, the character gains the deafened con-dition permanently.
Lost Eye
The character has had their eye removed or destroyed and suﬀers the following penalties:
•	                    All tests that rely on sight are made with a -20 penalty.
•	                    If both eyes are lost, the character gains the blinded con-dition permanently.
Lost Foot/Leg
The character has had their leg severed somewhere between the ankle and the hip and suﬀers the following penalties.
•	                    Gain the slowed condition permanently.
•	                    All tests that rely on the use of two legs are made with a -20 penalty.
•	                    If both legs are lost, gain the Immobilized condition per-manently and fail any tests that rely entirely on movement.
Lost Hand/Arm
The character has had their arm severed somewhere between the wrist and the shoulder, and suﬀers the following penalties:
•	                    Can no longer use two-handed weapons, shields (if the whole arm is missing), or one handed weapons in that arm.
•	                    All tests that rely on the use of two hands are made with a -20 penalty.
•	                    If both hands are lost, the character cannot wield weapons and automatically fails all tests that rely on the use of hands.
Organ Damage (Lost Body Part: Body)
The character has had their internal organs damaged. Characters with this condition heal damage at half speed and reduce their SP maximum and WT by 1.
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds 
If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds; instead of reducing WT by 1, increase the passive wound penalty to all tests to -30.
Muffled (X)
A character with this condition is harder to hear. Hearing based tests to detect this character are made with a -X penalty. Only apply the highest value version of this condition if a character would receive it more than once.
Prone
The character is prone, and every 1 meter that they move while prone costs 2 meters of their movement for the round. They also suﬀer a -20 penalty to all combat related tests and count any full armor they are wearing as partial (to represent that it is easier for characters to take advantage of gaps in their defenses while they are down). 
Dropping prone costs no movement, but standing up requires that a character spend movement equal to half of their base Speed. If the character does not have this much movement left over to use, then they cannot get up unless they take the Arise action.
Paralyzed
The character is frozen, unable to move any part of their body. They may only cast spells that do not require speech or motion.
Restrained
The character is restrained and thus unable to move. They also cannot attack or defend themselves. They may only cast spells that do not require motion.
Silenced
Magically silenced characters believe they are making sound, but in reality their words never pass their lips. They suﬀer the usual -20 penalty for being unable to speak when casting spells. At the start of each round they can roll a Perception test to see if they realize what is happening.
Slowed
The character’s Speed is reduced by half (round up).
Stunned
The character immediately loses all remaining Action Points upon becoming stunned. Stunned characters do not regain Action Points at the start of each round.
Unconscious
The character is knocked out and loses consciousness. They fall prone if the circumstances allow and may not take actions. If a character gains a level of fatigue while unconscious, they die.
