# Chapter 2 - Character Creation (Full Text Extract)

This is a verbatim page-by-page text extraction from the PDF.


---

## Page 1

Chapter 2: Character Creation
“Ah yes, we’ve been expecting you! You’ll have to be recorded before you’re officially released. There are a few
ways we can do this, and the choice is yours.”
Socucius Ergalla, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind


---

## Page 2

Legendary heroes fill the history of the Elder Scrolls setting, Step 5: Finishing Touches
but even the greatest heroes need to start somewhere. The Finally, calculate your character’s attributes and finalize any
world of Tamriel is a vast and diverse one, and there are an remaining aspects of the character sheet. Characters also start
enormous number of potential characters a player may want to with a budget of drakes which can be used in this step to pur-
create. However there are some things that all characters have chase equipment and other items that the character will begin
in common, and it is on this common ground that we can start the game with. Once you’ve fleshed out your character and
to build up a new character. chosen your character’s bonds, you’re good to go!
Character creation and advancement is accomplished through Step 6: (Optional) Choose Character Traits
the use of experience points, or XP. Your GM may instruct you to choose Character Traits from
the section in this chapter of the same name. Here, you will
Standard character creation is a five step process. It is neces- choose positive and/or negative traits using a budget defined
sary to go through these steps in the correct order, and it is by the book/your GM.
recommended you read through this list before moving on in
o C
ptiMizinG haraCterS
order to inform your future decisions. When you actually start
building the character, write down the details from each step on
a character sheet as you go along so you don’t lose track of things. As you create your character, you may have questions about how
you can make your character function well in the context of
Step 1: Race the game. This section will act as a guide during the character
During this step you will choose your character’s race. In addi- creation process to answer those questions.
tion to the core playable races from the video games, we have
also provided various races from the lore in this book. You One of the most important parts of this process is to gather as
should ask your GM which era the game is taking place in and much information as possible, both from your GM and the other
which races are allowed for the campaign before you choose one players. Even if your GM can’t give away particular details of the
for your character. Each race comes with their own characteristic campaign, they should be able to give you a sense of the overall
baseline used to generate characteristics for members of that tone, as well as what kinds of skills will be important to have.
race, and many races have bonus powers, starting skills, or traits. It’s also important to talk to your fellow players, particularly
while building your characters, so that you can make sure your
Step 2: Generate Characteristics party as a whole is capable of taking on a variety of challenges
During this step you will get to choose your character’s favored and that each member has an important job to do.
characteristics and generate your characteristic scores using dice
and the characteristic baseline appropriate to your choice of Priorities
race in the previous step. When building your character it’s important to determine what
your priorities are: what are your character’s most important
Step 3: Determine Birthsign traits, and how are you going to represent them within the
Next, you determine your character’s Birthsign, choosing the system? You’re working with a limited budget of XP, and while
charge of the Warrior, Mage, or Thief and then rolling on the you might have an idea of where you want the character to go in
appropriate table. There is a chance during this step that the the future you’ll likely find that you have to focus on purchasing
character will receive the Star-Cursed version of a sign instead, only the essentials at first.
reflecting the threatening presence of the Serpent sign at the
time of their birth. Magically oriented characters should ensure that they have
enough Magicka Points to support the types of spells they want
Step 4: Spend XP & Purchase Items to cast, and a high enough Willpower to reliably cast them.
Next, you spend your remaining XP on any character advance- The best way to increase one’s Magicka Points is through the
ments that you desire. Any XP remaining after this process is use of the Power Well trait, a trait that increases the amount
over is kept after character creation. of one’s Magicka Points and that can be attained as both a
racial bonus or through the use of certain Birthsigns. Though
for some characters there may be no need for lots of magicka:
a high Intelligence will suffice for an Alchemist or Enchanter.
25


---

## Page 3

Combat oriented characters should think about how their
character fights. This means considering both how they plan
to engage and defeat their enemies in combat, as well as how
they plan to survive combat.
Don’t be a “one-trick pony”! Characters who focus on a singular
style of engagement should consider having back-up options
available for when they find themselves in an unexpected sit-
uation. For example, a barbarian who prefers to fight in melee
with an axe might choose to also carry axes with the Thrown
quality so that they can attack at range when getting in close
is not an option.
Characters that aren’t naturally tough will need another way to
mitigate damage, either through magical means, the use of armor,
or evasion. When it comes to winning the fight, it’s important
to consider how your character will position themselves relative
to the rest of the party: having a “front line” can be very useful
if certain characters intend to engage at range, though these
front-liners will often find themselves fighting outnumbered.
The critical decision is which of these abilities are necessary
There are also a wide variety of non-combat oriented characters to the character, and which are just nice to have. The former
that one might wish to create. There are too many to cover are worth investing in early, while it is often better to replace
here, but in general it is still important to consider how these the latter with additional skill ranks that will prove critical at
characters will handle themselves if the party gets into a fight. lower XP values.
Skill and Talents Surviving Combat
The UESRPG 3e has a large number of skills and talents that Even characters who shine off the battlefield can expect to find
players can choose from when creating their characters, which themselves in combat at least once during a campaign. It is
can lead to some difficult choices. Fortunately there are a few important for every character to have a plan when things get
general guidelines that players can follow when navigating violent. Perhaps the most important thing to remember when
character creation. approaching combat is to not bite off more than you can chew:
fighting outnumbered is a very dangerous prospect, even for
When it comes to skills, it’s important to decide how specialized skilled warriors. There are ways to prepare for this situation,
your character needs to be. Mages dedicated to one particular however: clever use of flanking and long Reach weapons, or
school of magic, or warriors devoted to a specific way of combat, proficiency in the Evade skill can allow a character to survive in
would both benefit from having a high rank in the relevant skill. combat against many enemies, while heavy armor and healing
Rogue type characters, on the other hand, can adopt a more magic can allow characters to last longer under pressure.
“jack of all trades” approach as they need to be able to navigate
a wide variety of situations. Additionally, all characters stand to benefit from raising their
Endurance score where possible regardless of their approach
There are also a number of non-combat skills that every char- to combat or their character archetype. Given that Endurance
acter should consider learning, even if only at a very low level. directly relates to HP and Wound Threshold, a high endurance
Skills like Observe, Survival, Lore, Ride, Navigate, Profession: score increases a character’s general survivability. In other words,
Medicine and Athletics are extremely useful for all types of Endurance is not a dump stat!
traveling adventurers.
Characters who have neither the ability to effectively fight in
Talents are a little more difficult to choose: there are a variety of heavy armor, or the speed to dance around their foes, will benefit
talents that have powerful effects, but it’s easy to go overboard. most from simply not getting caught in a direct engagement.
Some talents unlock the ability to do things other characters Characters wielding ranged weapons or using ranged magic can
cannot, while others function to augment a particular skill have a profound impact on the fight from a safe distance, where
(such as by providing rerolls or replacing degrees of success). there is a much lower risk of having an axe buried in one’s skull.
26


---

## Page 4

C r
ore aCeS
The races provided in this section encompass the core races portrayed in the Elder Scrolls games. Additional races can be found
in “Expanded Races” on page 43. Each race comes with their own characteristic baseline used to generate characteristics for
members of that race, and many races have bonus powers, starting skills, or traits. You should ask your GM which races are allowed
in the campaign before you pick one. Some races have unique racial traits that are defined in their sections. Racial powers can be
found in the Powers section later in this Chapter.
“One might further wonder whether the proper classification of these same “races,” to use the imprecise but useful term, should be made from
the assumption of a common heritage and the differences between them have arisen from magickal experimentation, the manipulations
of the so-called “Earth Bones,” or from gradual changes from one generation to the next.”
- Imperial University Council of Healers, Notes on Racial Phylogeny
27


---

## Page 5

Altmer
The Altmer (or High Elves, as they are also known) are a race
of Mer that make their home on the Summerset Isles, a set of
islands off the south western coast of Tamriel. Many races of
Tamriel consider the Altmer to be quite beautiful due to their
fair, golden skinned complexion and the dazzling gem like colors
of their eyes; as such, the Altmer are welcome guests in most
parts of Tamriel, save for the Black Marsh and Vvardenfell.
However, the combination of their fair appearance, long lives,
propensity for magic, and resemblance to the Old Elves of
Tamriel tends to give Altmer an elevated sense of their own
importance. This can sometimes impact diplomatic relations
with the other races.
The use of magic is heavily emphasized in Altmer society, given
the latent magical gifts of the Altmer race. Those Altmer that
rarely or never leave the Summerset Isles are used to a culture in
which Magic permeates every level of society. Unfortunately, the
natural affinity of the Altmer race also leaves them vulnerable
to magical attack; however, most choose to pay little heed to
this drawback. Aside from their dependence on magic, Altmer
also tend to place a high cultural value on living for as long as
possible, often using magic to extend their longevity. Altmer
born and raised on Summerset Isle tend to be haughty and
more out of touch than those raised in other areas of Tamriel.
Altmer Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
20 23 23 30 28 25 25
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Disease Resistance (50%): Characters with this trait have a
chance to resist diseases. Whenever the character would be
infected by a common disease, roll a d100. If the roll is less
than or equal to 50, the character doesn’t get the disease.
• P ower Well (20): Characters with this trait have more
magicka than usual. Increase their MP max by 20. This
trait can stack.
• Weakness (Magic, 2): This character increases all incoming
magic damage by 2 after mitigation and suffers a -20 penalty
tests made to resist non-damaging magical effects.
• ( Racial) Mental Strength: Altmer ignore penalties to
Willpower tests made to resist paralysis.
Other
• During character creation, Altmer characters may pick
one of the traditional magic skills (Alchemy, Alteration,
Conjuration, Destruction, Enchanting, Illusion, Mysticism,
Necromancy, or Restoration) to begin trained at Novice
rank for free.
28


---

## Page 6

Argonian
Argonians are a race of reptilian humanoids native to the land of
Black Marsh in south-eastern Tamriel. In Jel, their native tongue,
Argonians refer to themselves as Saxhleel (meaning “People
of the Root”) to show their absolute reverence towards and
dependence on a the Hist, a species of sentient trees that share
a singular and extremely intelligent mind. The Argonian people
owe the entirety of their life, culture, and shape to the Hist, as
the sap of the trees is a necessary catalyst for the metamorphosis
of young Argonians into their humanoid form. Traditionally
minded Argonians also believe the Hist is a repository for their
souls, reincarnating them after death.
Argonians are naturally suited to the dangerous environment
of Black Marsh and are resistant to most diseases and poison.
Additionally, Argonians have the ability to breathe indefinitely
while underwater, as well as formidable resistance to many kinds
of damage, courtesy of the Hist. In their homeland, Argonians
tend to live in either desolate, scattered villages or within the
ruins of great cities of stone, remnants of the Elves and other
extinct denizens of the Black Marsh. Given the necessity of
the Hist to their lifestyle, most Argonians rarely leave Black
Marsh by choice; however, some have been known to aban-
don Argonian society and venture out into the wider world
as adventurers and hired workers. Unfortunately, others are
sometimes forcibly removed from Black Marsh by slavers and
sold as chattel across Tamriel.
Argonian Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
25 24 28 27 24 25 22
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Disease Resistance (75%): Characters with this trait have a
chance to resist diseases. Whenever the character would be
infected by a common disease, roll a d100. If the roll is less
than or equal to 75, the character doesn’t get the disease.
• Immunity (Poison): The character is immune to the effects
of poison.
• Amphibious: The character can breathe water and ignores
the skill cap placed on their combat rolls by their Athletics
skill when fighting in water.
• ( Racial) Inscrutable: Argonians receive a -10 penalty
to Persuade tests made to interact with non-Argonians.
However, Observe tests made to try to distinguish their
motives are made with a -10 penalty.
29


---

## Page 7

Bosmer
The Bosmer (or Wood Elves, as they are also known) are a race
of forest-dwelling Mer native to the province of Valenwood. In
their own tongue, the Bosmer refer to themselves as the Boiche,
or “Tree-Sap People”, a reference to their pact with the Aedra
Y’ffre. Like other elves, the Bosmer were originally from the
Summerset Isles; however, the Wood Elves scorned strict and
formal lifestyle of their Aldmeri ancestors, choosing to travel
to mainland Tamriel and live more carefree and simple lives.
Chronologically, the First Era is officially marked as starting
when the Bosmer united under the rule of the King Eplear, the
first of the Camoran Dynasty. Bosmer are known across Tamriel
as competent and deadly bow users; some rumors even claim
that the Wood Elves were the first to have invented and used
the bow as a weapon.
Despite the high status granted to Auri-El by most of the
Merish pantheons, the Bosmer hold Y’ffre in the highest regard.
As the first of the Aedra to help stabilize Nirn by becoming
an earthbone, Y’ffre helped the Wood Elves maintain their
shape during the Dawn Era. The grateful Bosmer accepted
his patronage, making an oath known as the Green Pact and
vowing to never eat nor harm any vegetation that grew within
Valenwood (though other plants outside the province have no
such protection). Because of their oath, those Bosmer native
to Valenwood (and even some who leave) are carnivorous, even
engaging in cannibalism on occasion.
Bosmer Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
21 21 31 25 23 26 24
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Disease Resistance (50%): Characters with this trait have a
chance to resist diseases. Whenever the character would be
infected by a common disease, roll a d100. If the roll is less
than or equal to 50, the character doesn’t get the disease.
• Resistance (Poison, 1): This character reduces all incoming
poison damage by 1 and gains a +10 bonus to tests made
to resist non-damaging poison effects.
• (Racial) Natural Archers: Bosmer add shortbows to any
combat style they use, and this does not count towards that
combat style’s five trained equipment types.
• (Racial) Beast Tongue: Bosmer can speak to, and under-
stand the speech of, animals. How exactly this functions is
left to the GM’s discretion, though it is recommended the
GM call for a Perception test when the Bosmer encounters
the speech of an unfamiliar animal to determine if they can
understand it and communicate back. Additionally, the
character receives a +20 bonus to any Profession [Animal
Training] skill tests they make.
30


---

## Page 8

Breton
The Bretons are a race of men native to the north western
province of High Rock. Bretons as a whole are generally dark-
haired, tall and gifted with a rare amount of intelligence and
willpower compared to the other races of men across Tamriel.
Despite their height, Bretons tend to have a slighter build, being
less muscular than Redguards or Nords. Bretons are descended
from both Aldmeri and Nedic bloodlines, giving them a unique
combination of abilities that both enhances their innate Aldmeri
talent for magic and suppresses their vulnerability to magic,
thanks to their Nedic heritage.
Culturally, Bretons possess a great love of art and philosophy,
as well as an innate connection with magic; this leads many
to scholarly pursuits, becoming great wizards and sorcerers.
Bretons are also prone to engaging in knightly pursuits, driven
on by a “quest-obsession” to do good deeds prevalent throught
Breton society.
Also worthy of mention are the Reachmen, a splinter group
of Bretons inhabiting the western reach that joins High Rock
and Skyrim. Violently opposed to the Breton kingdoms and
infighting of High Rock, the Reachmen have formed a tribal
society based on hedge magic learned from Orcs and bird-
witches known as Hagravens. Though far more ferocious than
their cultured cousins, the Reachmen live far more primitive
lives, trading the steel blades of High Rock for stone and bone,
the castles and towers for natural caverns.
Breton Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
23 21 22 28 30 25 25
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Resistance (Magic, 2): This character reduces all incoming
magic damage by 2 and gains a +20 bonus to tests made
to resist non-damaging magical effects.
• P ower Well (10): Characters with this trait have more
magicka than usual. Increase their MP max by 10. This
trait can stack.
Other
• During character creation, Breton characters may pick
one of the traditional magic skills (Alchemy, Alteration,
Conjuration, Destruction, Enchanting, Illusion, Mysticism,
Necromancy, or Restoration) to begin trained at Novice
rank for free.
31


---

## Page 9

Dunmer
The Dunmer (or Dark Elves, as they are also known) are a race
of xenophobic Mer native to the province of Morrowind, a land
dominated by a wasteland of dust and fire. Like other elves, the
Dunmer were originally from the Summerset Isles; however, they
are descended from the Chimer, a tribe of Aldmeri exiles who
fled Summerset to worship the Daedra, whom they title “Our
Stronger, Better Ancestors”. An agile and graceful people, the
Dunmer use their natural magical and physical abilities to their
advantage in combat. Physically their swordsmanship rivals that
of the Redguards of Hammerfell, while their natural affinity
for Destruction magic is rivaled only by their distant cousins
in the Summerset Isles.
Dunmer society is divided into two distinct areas: the more
civilized Great Houses and the nomadic Ashlanders. The Great
Houses of Morrowind behave more like nations than states,
divided as they are by both culture and politics. The only things
which unite the Great Houses are the temple and an almost
universal distaste for outlanders.
By contrast to the more civilized and political Great Houses,
Ashlander society is more tribal-oriented and nomadic. The
Ashlanders split from the society of the Great Houses over the
validity of the Temple’s doctrine, a conflict which has divided
the two sectors of Dunmer society ever since. Those who have
met the Ashlanders describe them as ferocious, chitin-armored
savages who are wary of strangers; however, beneath the xeno-
phobic surface of Ashlander society lies a deeply spiritual and
disciplined lifestyle, a vital key to the survival of the nomads
in the harsh land of Morrowind.
Dunmer Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
25 24 29 25 24 25 23
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Resistance (Fire, 3): This character reduces all incoming
fire damage by 3 and gains a +30 bonus to tests made to
resist non-damaging fire effects.
Powers (see the Powers section later in the Chapter)
• Ancestor Guardian
Other
• During character creation, Dunmer characters may choose
to begin with either the Destruction skill or the Necromancy
skill trained to Novice rank for free.
32


---

## Page 10

Imperial
Imperials (also known as Cyrods) are a race of men descended
from Nedics who settled in the province of Cyrodiil, most nota-
bly Nibenese and Colovians. From the time of the Merethic Era
the Imperials were held in slavery by the Ayleids (also known as
the Heartland High Elves) until a Nedic woman by the name
of Alessia organized a successful slave revolt with the help of
her champion Pelinal Whitestrake and demigod Morihaus.
Following the revolt, the Cyrods set up three different empires
under three different factions: Alessia and her followers, the
Reman Dynasty and the Septim Dynasty. Though the empires
had internal differences, more stark differences arose between the
more mercantile Nibenese and the rougher Colovians. Where
the Nibenese Imperials were skilled at trading the creation of
wealth, the Colovian Imperials were influenced by their northern
Nordic neighbors, turning to more physical pursuits such as
farming and war. In fact, such differences kept the Imperials
from becoming a unified people until the arrival of Reman
Cyrodiil in the First Era and Zero Cuhlecain at the end of the
Second Era.
Due to the central position of Cyrodiil in Tamriel, Cyrods have
learned to become shrewd traders and diplomats.
The more Nordic Imperials, Colovians, are rougher and more
physical than their Nibenese counterparts. The Nibenese are
more cosmopolitan than their Colovian bretheren and have
excelled in trade and other such pursuits.
Colovian Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
26 27 24 24 25 25 25
Nibenese Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
24 23 23 27 23 25 28
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• (Racial) Star of the West: Imperials increase their Stamina
Point maximum by 1.
• (Racial) Voice of the Emperor: Imperials speak with a
small bit of the power and majesty of the Emperors. They
may choose to use Willpower in place of the base charac-
teristic for a Persuade, Command, or Deceive skill test.
Other
• During character creation, Nibenese characters may pick
one of either the Commerce, Persuade, or Deceive skills
to begin trained at Novice rank for free.
33


---

## Page 11

Khajiit
Khajiit are a race of feline humanoids native to the province of
Elsweyr in southern Tamriel. In their native tongue of Ta’agra,
the word Khajiit means “desert walkers”, a fitting epithet for
the nomadic race. Unlike the other races of Tamriel, there are
a variety of different “breeds” of Khajiit, ranging from bipedal
to quadrupedal, the size of tigers to the size of house cats,
and many in between. Some are even unable to speak, while
others are hard to distinguish from elves. All of these things and
more are determined by the moons, cementing their place at
the center of Khajiit society. Aside from determining a given
Khajiit’s form and abilities, the moons also form the basis of
the Khajiit’s governmental system.
Most Khajiit value agility and cunning above brute force, as
these traits are valuable assets for survival in the harsh deserts and
tropical jungles the Khajiit call home. Their natural acrobatic
ability, intelligence and unmatched agility make the Khajiit
excellent guerrilla fighters, adventurers and thieves.
Each Khajiit breed counts as its own unique race, but only the
Suthay-Raht are presented here. Additional furstocks can be
found later in this chapter.
Suthay-Raht
Similar in height and build to the races of men, the Suthay-raht
are one of the most common breeds of Khajiit. Their coloring
ranges from dark brown and orange to light yellow, both with
and without stripes and spots. Suthay-raht are often referred to
as “Ja’Khajiit” (meaning “kitten”) by those of other races; this
appellation often strikes the Khajiit as odd, said title being one
of their names for Mehrunes Dagon.
Suthay-Raht Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
22 22 29 25 21 28 24
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• D ark Sight: A character with this trait can see normally
even in areas with total darkness and never takes penalties
for acting in areas with dim or no lighting.
• Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d4; Slashing)
34


---

## Page 12

Nord
The Nords are a race of tall, fair haired men hailing from Skyrim
but found all along the coasts of Tamriel. Originating from the
continent of Atmora, the Nords are a fierce and proud people,
known for their natural aptitude as both warriors and seafar-
ers. Possessing great physical strength and endurance, Nords
also enjoy impressive resistance to magical frost and lightning.
Natural conquerors, the warlike and enterprising spirit of the
Nords has greatly influenced the history of Tamriel since their
arrival from Atmora in the late Merethic Era, with their armies
driving the Snow Elves into ruin and providing the strength
and impetus to forge the first empires of man.
The Nords consider themselves the sons and daughters of Kyne,
formed when the great Northern Winds broke upon the ground
at the Throat of the World. As such, they consider their breath
their very essence and some are able to channel their strength
and power into their voices in magical shouts known as the
Thu’um.
Honor and heroism are important virtues to a Nord, for they
believe that an honorable life or a valiant death will grant them
access to Sovngarde, Shor’s Hall. This belief makes Nords all but
fearless in battle, making war with an energy and enthusiasm
that terrifies their enemies. This leads many down the path of
the warrior; consequently, most Nords encountered outside
Skyrim pursue some martial enterprise, be it sellsword, brigand,
or wandering adventurer.
Nord Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
30 28 23 21 24 25 23
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Tough (1): Increase the character’s Wound Threshold by 1.
• Resistance (Frost, 2): This character reduces all incoming
frost damage by 2 and gains a +20 bonus to tests made to
resist non-damaging frost/cold effects.
• Resistance (Shock, 1): This character reduces all incoming
shock damage by 1 and gains a +10 bonus to tests made
to resist non-damaging shock effects.
Powers (see the Powers section later in the Chapter)
• War Cry
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds
If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds, replace the
text for the Nord’s Tough trait with “Character gains a
+10 bonus to Shock Tests”.
35


---

## Page 13

Orsimer
The Orcs, sometimes known as Orsimer, are barbaric tribes
found in the north of Tamriel, concentrated in High Rock’s
Wrothgarian mountain range and with settlements in High
Rock, Skyrim, and Hammerfell. Known for their ugly appear-
ance (including but not limited to green or red skin, prominent
tusks, and unusual facial bone structure), propensity for violence,
and skill in metalcraft, the Orcs are commonly held to be the
least of the races. Although officially accepted as citizens by
the Cyrodiilic Empire after the events of the Warp in the West,
Tamriel’s populace still holds them in low regard, especially in
the northwest. With the few exceptions of those living in cities
or camps, most Orcs hail from Orsinium or a Stronghold, where
they are raised from birth to defend their clan and family.
Orcs have been bred for centuries to survive harsh conditions
and constant assault, and as such have a natural proficiency in
hand-to-hand combat. Their sheer physical strength makes them
formidable opponents when wearing heavy armor and wielding
two-handed weapons, especially when using products of their
own design. Most Orcs learn to work metal from a young age,
and even those who do not choose the smithing profession have
better skill to maintain their equipment. Orcs hailing from
wilderness Strongholds are generally more ferocious than their
Orsinium cousins, who tend to have more skill as craftsmen.
Orsimer Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
28 30 22 23 26 24 22
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Tough (1): Increase the character’s Wound Threshold by 1.
• Resilient (3): Increase the character’s HP maximum by 3.
• Resistance (Magic, 1): This character reduces all incoming
magic damage by 1 and gains a +10 bonus to tests made
to resist non-damaging magic effects.
Other
• During character creation, Orsimer characters may choose
to begin with the Profession [Smithing] skill trained to
Novice rank for free.
Optional Rule Note: Alternate Wounds
If you’re using the rules for Alternate Wounds, replace the
text for the Orsimer’s Tough trait with “Character gains a
+10 bonus to Shock Tests”.
36


---

## Page 14

Redguard
The Redguards originated from the continent of Yokuda, far to
Tamriel’s west. They are renowned sword masters and forged an
empire on Yokuda to rival Tamriel’s own. Following a disaster
which destroyed most of their homeland, the emigrated east to
Tamriel, where they landed on Hammerfell. In Hammerfell,
Redguard society split into two main camps: Forebears, those
who had come in the Warrior Wave to purge Hammerfell of
inhabitants, and Crowns, the upper-class who had followed.
The Redguards maintain a strong tradition of sword-mastery
and honor to this day, though the significant Redguard piracy
presence suggests interesting definitions of honor. Redguard
warriors are at their best when using their famed scimitars,
typically singly with a shield (though there are those who fight
with two scimitars, known as “dervishes”). They prefer lighter
armors and cloth to heavy metal, allowing for freedom and
rapidity of movement. Redguards make for strong individual
warriors, though only rarely does one find a Redguard who is
not part of a society or band. They are known for their strict
code of battlefield ethics, preferring to fight honorably even
against creatures they see as below them.
Redguard Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
27 28 26 22 23 25 24
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Disease Resistance (75%): Characters with this trait have a
chance to resist diseases. Whenever the character would be
infected by a common disease, roll a d100. If the roll is less
than or equal to 75, the character doesn’t get the disease.
• Resistance (Poison, 3): This character reduces all incoming
poison damage by 3 and gains a +30 bonus to tests made
to resist non-damaging poison effects.
Powers (see the Powers section later in the Chapter)
• Adrenaline Rush
Other
• During character creation, Redguard characters may choose
to begin with a Combat Style [Field] skill trained to Novice
rank for free.
37


---

## Page 15

C r v
ore aCial ariantS • (Racial) Wild Shape: During character creation, the
Unglamoured must pick one trait associated with their
wild shape:
Some exceptional members of certain races deviate from the • Amphibious
norm due to extraordinary circumstances, which may be cultural, • Climber (AB x 2)
societal, or based on their place of origin. • Crawler
• Dark Sight
Listed below are several Racial Variants that can be incorpo- • Natural Toughness (1)
rated into a campaign with the GM’s permission. However, • Natural Weapons (Horns or Claws, 1d6 Slashing or
it’s essential to carefully consider them, as most of these may Crushing, 1m)
require the GM to pay extra attention to the cultural changes • Natural Weapons (Fangs, 1d4 Slashing, 1m) and
associated with these variants. Strong Jaws.
• Quadruped
Bosmer: Unglamoured
• Regeneration (1)
In the days before the Green Pact, the Bosmer constantly shifted • Swimmer
between numerous bestial forms, unable to control or maintain However, their altered form is also a curse. They must also
any single shape. With the assistance of Y’ffre, they eventually select one weakness:
acquired the ability to adopt a consistent form, evolving into • Silver-Scarred (2)
the Bosmer known today. Yet, their original wild nature remains, • Sun-Scarred (2)
concealed but ever-present. • Weakness (Fire, 2)
• Weak Bones(1)
Most Bosmer show no visible traces of this primal state, their
Breton or Nord: Reachmen
true forms obscured by the wild magic of Glamour. This
Glamour, however, is unpredictable. Some Bosmer lack this Before the Nords conquest of The Reach, it was the home of
protective magic, and it remains uncertain whether this absence a tribal people known as the Reachmen, men and women of
is due to divine retribution from Y’ffre or merely misfortune. mixed Breton and Nordic descent. Both Nords and Bretons
perceive the Reachmen as Mongrels and bloody savages.
These particular Bosmer manifest in various forms—part mer,
part beast, satyrs, redcaps, boggles, and other creatures of folk- Worshipping what they call the “Old Gods,” taking part in
lore—all marked by entirely black eyes. Within Bosmer society, blasphemous rituals, utilizing dark magicks and their general
they are regarded with suspicion and caution. They’re seldom xenophobic nature makes them feared amongst those that
found beyond Valenwood’s borders, but those who venture oppose them. Their most ill-famed ritual is the rite of the ven-
out quickly realize the broader world is as wary of them as geance, in which a Reachman has their heart replaced by a Briar
their own kin. seed, and infused with a spirit of vengeance to deliver terrible
retribution upon those that stole away their ancestral lands as
Creating an Unglamoured Bosmer follows the basic profile of an undead avenger.
standard Bosmer characters. However, they gain additional
rules to depict their unique status as shape-shifting outliers: They revere and glorify the Hagravens as their cultural leaders,
a practice that most of Tamriel considers to be foul, or simply
• (Racial) One With the Wild: Being more in touch with plain wrong. For these reasons, the Reachmen are regarded
the world than their brethren, the Unglamoured have no by most to be a savage people, full of madmen and Daedra
trouble surviving in the wilderness. They receive a +10 worshippers.
bonus on all Survival tests and gain a +20 on all Survival
tests relating to the traits chosen on their Wild Shape racial The Reachmen persistently and unrelentingly battle the Nords
trait. that rule over them, raiding their settlements when they can, and
• (Racial) The Beast Within: The Unglamoured are on the pillaging for the sake of causing chaos. Using the land to their
verge of the Wild Hunt, which can be seen and felt by advantage, and even the very spirits on their side, they battle
others in their presence. As a result of this uncanny aura, to take back the Reach. Driven by revenge for the conquering
Unglamoured receive a -10 penalty on all social skill tests of their lands, these men utilize whatever means necessary to
and a -20 on all social skill tests involving other Bosmer. drive out those that claim the Reach to be theirs.
38


---

## Page 16

Making a Reachman follows the base profile of making any Making an Ashlander follows the base profile of
Breton or Nord character, representing the mixed blood that making a Dunmer character, but gain the following
makes up their numbers, but replaces their usual Racial Traits, Traits and bonuses to represent their harsher lifestyle:
Powers, and any benefits listed as “Other” with the traits below:
• (Racial) Life in the Wasteland: Ashlanders are adapted
• (Racial) Fury of the Old Gods: The witch-men of the to life in the volcanic grasslands and deserts around Red
reach are blessed by the Old Gods with a righteous fury Mountain, and as a result gain a +10 bonus on all Survival
towards any and all invaders, and will not helm until every tests made in hot climates, and count their Resistance (Fire)
last one of them are dead at their feet. Any social interaction trait as being one point higher while in these environments.
test except Intimidation with people not sympathetic with • (Racial) Pride and Prejudice: Any social test except
the Reachmen suffers a -10 penalty as their native language Intimidation made by or towards an Ashlander suffers
and culture is difficult for outsiders to interpret. However, a -10 penalty unless the other character is familiar with
the Reachmen gain a +10 bonus to all Combat Style tests Ashlander customs and traditions. Additionally, Ashlander
made while Frenzied or using the All Out Attack action characters should keep in mind that most slights are resolved
as they fight with the fervor of the Old Gods themselves. in their society by ritualized duels, often to first blood,
• (Racial) Accustomed to the Profane: The men and women but sometimes to the death if the perceived insult is grave
of the reach are raised in tribal societies, surrounded by enough to warrant it.
profane practices and dark rites, which has tempered their
wills against the petty horrors of the world. They gain a Other Benefits
+30 bonus to resist Panic Tests, and a +20 bonus to resist • During character creation, Ashlanders may choose to
Horror Tests. begin with the Survival skill trained to Novice rank for
free, instead of Destruction.
Other Benefits
Redguard: Crowns and Forebears
• During character creation, a Reachman may choose to
begin with the Survival skill, or one of the traditional hedge While Redguard society as a whole consists of a single race with
magics (Alteration, Destruction, or Mysticism) trained to no great bodily variation, a cultural divide between the Crowns
Novice rank for free. and the Forebears split their people down the middle.
• Reachmen do not count as their parent race for the purpose
of Elite Advances (example: Tongue advance for Nords), but The people of the Crowns, the old nobility of Yokuda are a more
can still take the Racial Talents of their parent race found aristocratic people, focusing on trade and positive relations,
later in this book. while the Forebears, also known as the Warrior Wave or Ra’Gada,
were the common folk of Yokuda who invaded Hammerfell
Dunmer: Ashlanders
and made it theirs by the sword. In most games, the difference
The Ashlanders of Morrowind isolate themselves from most will not matter as most people aren’t affiliated with the politics
of “modern” Dunmer society, and have become nomads that between the two factions, but for the games where the difference
travel the wastes. They are very distrusting of outsiders, and are matters, you can choose one of the following profile changes
traditionalist in their way of life. and apply it to the Redguard base profile.
After the Tribunal rose to power directly following the Battle Crowns
of Red Mountain, these Dunmer refused to accept the new • The character gains +1 Personality, and -2 Endurance.
Tribunal, believing that they betrayed and killed Lord Nerevar • The character replace Combat Style with Commerce or
at the Battle of Red Mountain. They follow the traditional Persuade as their free starting skill.
old ways of ancestor worship as well as worshipping Daedra,
specifically Boethiah, Azura, and Mephala. Forebears
• The character gains +1 Willpower, and -2 Personality.
The Ashlanders were slowly forced into the most • The character picks one additional weapon for their Combat
dangerous and inhospitable parts of Morrowind by the Style at character creation, but it must be a Sword or variant
Great Houses. This, their nomadic lifestyle, and their of a Sword such as a Sabre or Dagger.
clan based culture caused them to become more hardy
and adaptable in the hot wilderness around the slopes
of Red Mountain.
39


---

## Page 17

k f
hajiit urStoCkS • The Alfiq cannot speak normally, and must communicate
telepathically. Additionally, the Alfiq does not have oppos-
able thumbs, and will suffer penalties to any tasks requiring
Khajiit are each subtly bound to the Lunar Lattice, a mysterious fine motor skills or grip, such as using a weapon. This is
force entitled the Ja-Kha’jay in their native tongue. The Lunar left to GM arbitration.
Lattice determines the form a Khajiit assumes in life, according
to the phases of Masser and Secunda at the time of their birth;
while Khajiiti newborns appear incredibly similar to one another
at birth, their future form becomes clear in a matter of weeks.
This is due in part to the fact that, although born smaller than
the children of either man or mer, the Khajiiti mature at a
significantly faster rate.
Rules for playing Suthay-Raht characters can be found in the
Core Races section on page 34. Below are the rules for cre-
ating Khajiit characters of the major remaining types. Some
of the redundant variations have been left out, as well as a few
types that would otherwise be incapable of communicating with
others or about which we know nothing. Assuming you have the
Cathay
permission of your GM, treat these Khajiit just as you would
any other race and follow the usual steps for character creation. The Cathay are similar to the Suthay-Raht in appearance and
bi-pedalism, however possess greater stature and strength, and
Alfiq
are often described by non-khajiit races as “jaguar-men.”
A quadrupedal form of Khajiit, the Alfiq is, in many respects,
similar to a common housecat. Although diminutive in form, Cathay Characteristic Baseline
the Alfiq retain the keen intelligence of the Khajiiti, having
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
the ability to understand the spoken word of others, although
27 26 25 20 21 27 22
unable to respond.
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
Alfiq Characteristic Baseline • D ark Sight: The Cathay can see normally even in areas
with total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
areas with dim or no lighting.
10 15 30 28 27 30 20
• Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d6 Slashing)
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
Ohmes
• Dark Sight: The Alfiq can see normally even in areas with
total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in areas Similar in many ways to the Bosmer, although generally of lesser
with dim or no lighting. stature. In order to avoid being mistaken as one of the Bosmer
• Quadruped: The Alfiq moves up to twice their speed when many Ohmes tattoo their faces to resemble a feline-aspect. The
they use the Dash action and three times their speed when Ohmes is the most common form seen outside of the province
they use the Sprint stamina ability. of Elsweyr, taking advantage of other races’ preference to their
• Telepathy (3): The Alfiq can broadcast a complex sen- appearance to serve in positions of ambassadorship and trade.
tence each round as a Free Action to all characters within
WB*100m. Ohmes Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
Other
20 20 27 27 24 26 27
• During character creation, the Alfiq may learn the Catfall
talent for free. Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Alfiq can purchase the Thought Caster talent without • D ark Sight: The Ohmes can see normally even in areas
meeting any talent or characteristic prerequisites. with total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in
• Alfiq are Tiny sized characters. Attempts to hit the Alfiq areas with dim or no lighting.
suffer a -20 penalty. However, the character’s Carry Rating • Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d4 Slashing)
and total HP are halved.
40


---

## Page 18

Ohmes-Raht
Similar to the race of men, save for their short, light-colored fur,
the Ohmes-raht may easily be mistaken as men at a distance.
Unlike the many other species of Khajiit who walk like cats
upon the balls of their feet, the Ohmes-raht walk upon their
heels. They often serve in positions of ambassadorship and trade.
Ohmes-Raht Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
22 22 25 26 21 28 27
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
Pahmar
• D ark Sight: The Ohmes-Raht can see normally even in
areas with total darkness, and never takes penalties for The Pahmar are similar in appearance and size to tigers. It is
acting in areas with dim or no lighting. unknown exactly how they communicate, but most believe it
• Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d4 Slashing) is by means of a more primal form of Ta’agra.
Dagi-Raht
Pahmar Characteristic Baseline
Similar in all respects to the Dagi, while somewhat larger,
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
however not overly so as they are able to dwell in higher tree
30 28 25 15 20 30 15
branches of the Tenmar forest, like the Dagi. It can be assumed
that, like their smaller cousins, they are naturally skilled in the Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
use of magic. • D ark Sight: The Pahmar can see normally even in areas
with total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in
Dagi-Raht Characteristic Baseline areas with dim or no lighting.
• Q uadruped: The Pahmar moves up to twice their speed
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
when they use the Dash action and three times their speed
20 20 28 26 26 27 22
when they use the Sprint stamina ability.
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4) • Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d10 Slashing)
• Dark Sight: The Dagi-Raht can see normally even in areas • Natural Weapons (Fangs; 1d8 Splitting): Attacks made
with total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in using this natural weapon do not require a free hand
areas with dim or no lighting. • Strong Jaws: An attack made by this character’s Fangs that
• Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d4 Slashing) deals damage automatically starts a Grapple. The test to
• Power Well (20): Increase the Dagi-Raht’s MP max by 20. contest this Grapple is made against the original test made
This trait can stack. by the attacker. If the target Counter Attacks a Bite attack,
the Counter Attack ignores the creature’s AR and Natural
Other Toughness trait.
• During character creation, the Dagi-Raht may start with
the Acrobatics skill trained to Novice, they can take the Other
Catfall talent for free, or both together for 100 XP. • During character creation, the Pahmar may learn the Catfall
talent for free.
• Looted armor must be modified by a smith before the
Pahmar can equip it.
• The Pahmar does not have opposable thumbs, and will
suffer penalties to any tasks requiring fine motor skills or
grip, such as using a weapon. This is left to GM arbitration.
41


---

## Page 19

Other
Senche
• During character creation, the Senche may learn the Catfall
The Senche are the size of horses, and often used as steeds by talent for free.
smaller breeds. It is unknown exactly how they communicate, • Looted armor must be modified by a smith before the
but most believe it is by means of a more primal form of Ta’agra. Senche can equip it.
• The Senche does not have opposable thumbs, and will
Senche Characteristic Baseline suffer penalties to any tasks requiring fine motor skills or
grip, such as using a weapon. This is left to GM arbitration.
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
• Senche are Large sized creatures. Attempts to hit the char-
30 28 25 15 20 30 15
acter with ranged attacks gain a +10 bonus.
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
Tojay
• D ark Sight: The Senche can see normally even in areas
with total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in Tojay live in the marshes and jungle regions of southern Elsweyr.
areas with dim or no lighting.
• Q uadruped: The Senche moves up to twice their speed Tojay Characteristic Baseline
when they use the Dash action and three times their speed
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
when they use the Sprint stamina ability.
25 24 28 27 24 25 22
• Natural Weapons (Claws; 1d10 Slashing)
• Natural Weapons (Fangs; 1d8 Splitting): Attacks made Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
using this natural weapon do not require a free hand. • Dark Sight: The Tojay can see normally even in areas with
• Vicious (SB + 1): The Senche treats their Strength Bonus total darkness, and never takes penalties for acting in areas
as 1 point higher for resolving damage. with dim or no lighting.
• Strong Jaws: An attack made by this character’s Fangs • Natural Weapons (Fangs; 1d4 Splitting): Attacks made
that deals damage automatically starts a Grapple. The test using this natural weapon do not require a free hand.
to contest this Grapple is made against the original test • Disease Resistance (50%): Whenever the Tojay would be
made by the attacker. If the target Counter Attacks a Bite infected by a common disease, roll a d100. On a roll of 50
attack, the Counter Attack ignores the creature’s AR and or less, the character resists the disease.
Natural Toughness trait. • Resistance (Poison, 2): The Tojay reduces all incoming
Poison damage by 2 points, and gains a +20 to resist any
non-damaging Poison effects.
42


---

## Page 20

e r
xpanded aCeS
Ayleids
The Ayleids were descendants of the Aldmer that emigrated to
This section contains a set of rules for additional playable races. Cyrodiil (from Summerset Isle). At one point they controlled
Some of these can be used in any campaign, while others only the entirety of what is now the Imperial Province of Cyrodiil,
have a place in certain adventures. When choosing a race from and enslaved the indigenous Cyrodilic and Nordic populations.
this section, always consult your GM first. Depending on These slaves were used in various ways- to build and maintain
when and where your campaign is set, your GM may choose roads and temples and to drain fields. Some Ayleids are even
to prohibit the use of some or all of these races when you said to have tortured slaves for amusement. During the Slave
are creating a character. The relevant section for each race will Rebellion of 1E 242 the nearby human kingdom of Skyrim
provide some advice in this matter to help you and your GM lent help to their enslaved relatives in the Ayleid Empire, which
decide if a certain type of character is appropriate. played a part in the Ayleids being overthrown by the Slave
Queen Alessia and her supporters, and the subsequent shift in
The Proto-Races
power from Mer to Men on Tamriel.
Between the Aldmer, Atmorans, Nedes, Chimer, and others,
there are a variety of races that can be classified as “proto-races:” It also appears that Alessia’s rebellion coincided with a civil
ancestors of one or more of the “modern” peoples of Tamriel. war within the Ayleid Empire which led to many rebel Ayleid
Much of what we know about these races tends to come from lords joining forces and aiding her in her rebellion. Though the
myths and legends maintained by their descendants, and thus Ayleids would continue to have a presence in Cyrodiil for several
cannot be taken entirely at face value. On the other hand, the hundred years more, they were never again a major military or
Elder Scrolls setting is a strange place, and more often than not political power. This event signaled the beginning of the Late
myths have truth to them. Thus we have decided to leave it to Ayleid Period. Their greatest fortress, White Gold Tower, was
individual groups to decide which of these interpretations is turned into the Imperial Palace by Alessia and her descendants,
more appropriate to their campaign. Our general recommen- and it remains so to this day. The last of the Ayleids who opposed
dation is to utilize the appropriate modern race as a template Alessia held out at a village in the vicinity of modern day Bravil
for their predecessors (Nords for Atmorans, Altmer for Aldmer, and it took Alessia’s forces, led by Bravillius Tasus, four attempts
etc), making tweaks as appropriate. Groups that favor a more to finally defeat them.
powerful vision of the ancestral races of Tamriel should feel free
to tack on points and traits as they see fit, while groups looking In 1E 393 the Alessian Order sacked the ancient Ayleid temple
for a more down to earth game should be able to get by just of Malada in their attempts to eradicate all Elven presence in
fine with the races found in the Core Rulebook. Cyrodiil.
43


---

## Page 21

Ayleid culture lingered in the city-states that survived as client
kingdoms of Alessian Cyrodiil, but most of the Elven popula-
tion was finally driven into exile (largely to Valenwood) by the
intolerance of the Alessian Order, though some Ayleids remained
in Cyrodiil, serving as mentors and tutors for the new human
nobility. The last kingdom of the Ayleids was last heard of in
1E 482 at the Battle of Glenumbria Moors. Whether the King’s
people made it through the next few centuries is unknown, but
this was a significant event: the age of the Ayleids had ended.
Though the most recent reported sightings are over 1000 years
old, it is possible that some tribes of Ayleids may continue to
live deep within the forests of Cyrodiil even today. These Ayleids,
or Wild Elves, are at best a rarity and may not have actually
survived into the Third Era. The Ayleid Sage Tjurhane Fyrre
talked and wrote extensively of the state of the Ayleid culture
in the late First Era and early Second Era. According to Fyrre,
the Ayleids of this time lived in a tribal society, with each “tribe”
being substantially different from the next.
Ayleid Player Characters
Below are the rules for creating Ayleid characters. Assuming you
have the permission of your GM, treat the Ayleid just as you
would any other race and follow the usual steps for character
creation.
Ayleid Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
20 23 25 28 27 25 26
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Weakness (Magic, 1): The character increases all incoming
Magic damage by 1 point, and suffers a -10 penalty to all
tests to resist non-damaging magical effects.
• Power Well (5): The character increases their maximum
Magicka Points by 5.
• (Racial) Empowered by Starlight: Ayleid characters treat
their Willpower Bonus as being 2 higher for the purpose of
spell restraint while under direct starlight. The Ayleid can
choose to forfeit this bonus as a Free Action for the rest of
the night in order to absorb some of the radiating magicka,
regaining 15 Magicka Points instantly.
• (Racial) Flesh Shaper: When an Ayleid uses any Restoration
spell that regenerates a target’s health, they can choose to
inflict the specified amount as Magic damage instead. Any
spells used in this way count as if they had the Attack
attribute instead of the Instant attribute. Additionally, an
Ayleid can use the Stabilize spell to Treat wounds.
Other
• During character creation, Ayleid characters can choose to
begin with the Restoration or Enchanting skill trained to
Novice rank for free.
44


---

## Page 22

Dwemer
The Dwemer, the “people of the deep”, are a fabled “Lost
Race” of Mer from Dwemereth, which mostly consisted of
modern-day Morrowind, where they are believed to have been
the most prolific, though they also had a strong presence in
Hammerfell, High Rock, and Skyrim. Meric races use the term
“Dwemer”, which translates to “Deep-Elves” or “Deep Folk”.
Men commonly refer to them as Dwarves. The early history
of the Dwemer is still clouded in mystery. There is no known
story of their dissociation from the Aldmer, which must have
occurred very early in Tamrielic history, as their society bore few
correlations with that of the Altmer besides some similar legal
principles. The Dwemer built elaborate underground cities near
and beneath mountain ranges, including the Velothi Mountains
and Red Mountain, and in the mountains of the isle Stros
M’Kai.
Many misconceptions about them have abounded for centuries:
scholars long thought that most Dwemer ruins which dotted
Tamriel outside Morrowind were mere outposts and that there
were few significant Dwemer settlements elsewhere until 1E
420. Their society consisted of free-thinking yet reclusive clans
devoted to the secrets of science, engineering, and the arcane
until they mysteriously disappeared around 1E 700.
Dwemer Player Characters
Below are the rules for creating Dwemer characters. Assuming
you have the permission of your GM, treat the Dwemer just
as you would any other race and follow the usual steps for
character creation.
Dwemer Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
24 24 22 30 28 25 21
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Power Well (5)
• Weakness (Frost, 1): The character increases all incoming
frost damage by 1 after mitigation, and suffers a -10 penalty
tests made to resist non-damaging frost effects. This trait
can stack.
Powers (see the Powers section later in the Chapter)
• The Calling
Other
• Dwemer characters suffer a -10 penalty to Survival skill
tests made while above ground.
• During character creation, Dwemer characters may choose
to begin with the Logic skill trained to Novice rank for free.
45


---

## Page 23

Falmer
The Falmer (or Snow Elves) were once a proud people with
an unusually great aptitude for magic. They inhabited Skyrim
before the Nords returned from Atmora. They had a civilization
which rivaled even the Altmer of the Summerset Isles.
After the Night of Tears in the late Merethic Era, Ysgramor and
his Five Hundred Companions launched a campaign to drive
the elves from Skyrim. The Falmer’s civilization was obliterated
at the Battle of the Moesring after being forced to Solstheim,
which ended with the death of their leader, the Snow Prince.
Many Falmer sought sanctuary underground with the Dwemer
of Skyrim. The Falmer were eventually forced to become servants
of the Dwemer and became blind through uncertain means,
but eventually rebelled against their dwarven masters, ultimately
coming to a climax in the War of the Crag. After the disap-
pearance of the Dwemer, the Falmer were left to spread freely
throughout Blackreach. However, centuries of subterranean
slavery, combined with their permanent blindness, had left
them crippled, and years of fighting the Dwemer had left the
race bloodthirsty and brutal.
A small handful of Falmer managed to avoid becoming slaves
to the Dwemer, instead retreating to hidden shrines such as the
Chantry of Auri-El. These few remaining Snow Elves (as they
prefer to call themselves) look upon their twisted kindred (which
they refer to as “the Betrayed”) with pity, which does not affect
the falmer’s aggressive dispoition toward them.
Falmer Player Characters
Below are the rules for creating Falmer characters. Assuming
you have the permission of your GM, treat the Falmer just
as you would any other race and follow the usual steps for
character creation.
Falmer Characteristic Baseline
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
20 23 25 28 27 25 26
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
• Weakness (Fire, 2): The Falmer increases all incoming
Fire damage by 2 points and suffers a -20 to resist any
non-damaging Fire effects.
• Resistance (Frost, 3): The Falmer reduces all incoming
Frost damage by 3 points and gains a +30 to resist any
non-damaging Frost effects.
• Power Well (10): The Falmer increases their maximum
Magicka Points by 10.
• (Racial) Chillhearted Fury: Frost damage dealt by the
Falmer using spells or enchantments is increased by 1.
46


---

## Page 24

Maormer Sload
The Maormer, also known as Sea Elves or Tropical Elves, are The Sload are a race of slug-like beastfolk living in the Coral
a race of mer that reside on the island of Pyandonea, south of Kingdoms of Thras, somewhere southwest of Tamriel. They
the continent of Tamriel. They have blank eyes and colorless, apparently do not experience emotions as the Tamrielic races
chameleon-like skin, which is capable of blending in with the do, but are often skilled at acting and may exaggeratedly sim-
environment. It was originally believed that they had lived in the ulate them for the benefit of more emotive beings. They will
Altmer home of Summerset Isle and were exiled, but tapestries honor laws, loyalties and friendships only as long as they cal-
found in the Crystal Tower of Alinor reveal an enmity going culate it to be in their best interests to do so. They also have no
back so far as to make that theory impossible. compunctions against blasphemy, theft, kidnapping, murder,
genocide or anything else that may help them reach their goals.
Their leader is an immortal wizard named Orgnum. The Sload are quite skilled at magic, particularly necromancy and
Maormer practice a snake-like magic which they use to tame teleportation magics.
sea-serpents.
Sload are not religious in any apparent sense, but will willingly
Maormer Player Characters serve Daedra if they benefit from it. It is unknown exactly how
Below are the rules for creating Maormer characters. Assuming they reproduce - they are believed to be hermaphrodites in
you have the permission of your GM, treat the Maormer just their youths, though the sexual organs seem to be absorbed by
as you would any other race and follow the usual steps for the time they are old enough to survive on land. Sload parents
character creation. seemingly have no interest in the fate of the young, and upon
Maormer Characteristic Baseline reaching adulthood the Sload becomes amphibious and has an
appearance similar to a large, vaguely humanoid slug.
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
23 20 25 29 28 25 22
As they age, Sload tend to grow in size and corpulence, and
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4) many older Sload would collapse under their own weight if not
• Weakness (Shock, 1): The Maormer increases all incoming buoyed up by water or by magical means. There is no known
Shock damage by 1, and suffers a -10 penalty to all tests limit to either the age or the size of an adult Sload.
made to resist non-damaging Shock effects.
• Power Well (5): The Maormer increases their maximum Sload Player Characters
Magicka Points by 5. Below are the rules for creating Sload characters. Assuming you
• Swimmer: The Maormer’s Swim Speed is doubled. have the permission of your GM, treat the Sload just as you
• (Racial) Chameleon Skin: The Maormer receives a +10 would any other race and follow the usual steps for character
bonus to any Stealth skills made to blend into their envi- creation.
ronment visually. Sload Characteristic Baseline
• (Racial) Sorcerous Serpent Speech: Maormer can speak to,
Str End Ag Int Wp Prc Prs
and understand, the speech of serpents, both land and sea.
20 20 10 30 30 25 20
How exactly this functions is left to the GM’s discretion.
Traits (simplified: full rules can be found in Chapter 4)
Other • Power Well (10): The Sload increases their maximum
During character creation, Maormer characters may choose to Magicka Points by 10.
begin with the Athletics skill trained to Novice for free. • (Racial) Abominable: Sload receive a -20 penalty on all
social skill based tests with non-Sload. Additionally, they
gain a +20 bonus to Persuade tests made to intimidate.
Other
• During character creation, the Sload may choose to begin
with Necromancy, Mysticism, or Alteration trained to
Novice for free, or have all three trained to Novice for
100 XP.
• Sload characters are blessed with flawless memory, and never
need any kind of roll to remember anything they have seen
or heard, and gain +1 bonus DoS on any successful Lore
tests they make.
47


---

## Page 25

G C
enerate haraCteriStiCS
During this step you will choose your character’s favored char-
acteristics and then roll for your characteristic scores, using
the characteristic baseline appropriate to your choice of race.
Choose Favored Characteristics
Not all characteristics are created equal! Some characters excel
in certain areas over others, beyond a simple difference in raw
characteristic score. Favored Characteristics are those char-
acteristics a character is naturally gifted in; improving those
characteristics, or skills and abilities associated with them, is
easier than usual. Each player can choose their character’s two
favored characteristics (they must be different characteristics).
before they generate their characteristic scores. Learning and
ranking skills (including specializations) or talents governed
by a favored characteristic, or advancing that characteristic,
costs 75% of the usual XP cost (round down to the nearest
multiple of 5).
Rolling Characteristic Scores
Once you have chosen your two favored characteristics and
have a characteristic baseline from your race, you can generate
characteristics:
• Roll 2d10 seven times, and assign each roll to one of your
Characteristics (excluding Luck). Add each roll to the Strength (Str / SB) measures a character’s physical prowess
assigned Characteristic score listed in your Characteristic and their ability to employ that prowess and push themselves
baseline. to their physical limits.
• Roll 2d10, add 30 to the result, and assign the resulting
two digit value to your Luck score. Luck cannot exceed Endurance (End / EB) measures a character’s physical health,
50 and cannot be advanced. stamina and toughness, and their resistance to damage.
• If the GM allows it, you may reroll up to three of the sets
of 2d10 from amongst the pool of rolls (but not the one Agility (Ag / AB) measures a character’s physical speed, reflexes,
for Luck) after all rolls are completed but before you assign and coordination, reflecting their overall ability to move quickly
the results. The new values are final. and gracefully.
Intelligence (Int / IB) measures a character’s mental prowess,
Optional Rule - Point Buy Characteristics problem solving, reasoning, ability to recall information, and
Instead of rolling for characteristics, with GM permission understanding of the mysteries of magicka.
players can instead choose to distribute 80 points amongst
their various characteristic scores (not including luck, Willpower (Wp / WB) measures a character’s mental control,
which is rolled using the standard rule). No more than 20 resilience, and their ability to control and shape magicka.
points may go to one characteristic.
Perception (Prc / PcB) measures a character’s physical aware-
ness, as well as the accuracy of their “gut instincts” and intuition.
For convenience, all of the characteristics are reprinted here. For
more information see “Defining a Character” on page 15. Personality (Prs / PsB) measures a character’s natural charisma,
Additionally, from this point onward throughout the process presence, expressiveness, and social abilities.
a player may choose to permanently reduce their character’s
starting Luck score for certain benefits. These will be explained Luck (Lck / LkB) measures a character’s good fortune and how
when they come up. often events tend to go their way. See “Luck” in Chapter 1.
48


---

## Page 26

d b
eterMine irthSiGn Optional Rule - Player Chosen Birthsigns
Some groups may not like the random element intro-
duced by rolling for birthsigns. It is acceptable to simply
Next you roll for your character’s Birthsign, choosing the charge pick birthsigns without any Luck cost if the whole group
of the Warrior, Mage, or Thief and then rolling a d5 on the agrees to do so.
appropriate table. There is a chance during this step that the
character will receive the Star-Cursed version of a sign instead,
The Warrior
reflecting the threatening presence of the Serpent sign at the
time of their birth. Powers granted by Birthsigns can be found “The Warrior is the first Guardian Constellation and he protects
in the Powers section later in this Chapter. his charges during their Seasons. The Warrior’s own season is Last
Seed when his Strength is needed for the harvest. His Charges are
the Lady, the Steed, and the Lord. Those born under the sign of
Luck the Warrior are skilled with weapons of all kinds, but prone to
A player may choose to permanently reduce their short tempers.”
character’s Luck score by 5 in order to choose a Birthsign
of their choice (10 for the star-cursed version) either • Those born under the sign of the Warrior increase their
before or after rolling on the table. Alternatively, if the SP maximum by 1.
player decides to roll on the table and rolls a non-star- • Star-Cursed Warrior: As above, but also gain 5 Strength
cursed sign, they can choose to permanently reduce their and lose 5 Willpower.
character’s Luck score by 5 to take the star-cursed version.
The Lady
“The Lady is one of the Warrior’s Charges and her Season is
Warrior Birthsign Table Heartfire. Those born under the sign of the Lady are kind and
tolerant.”
Roll Result
1 The Warrior
• Those born under the sign of the Lady gain 5 Personality.
2 The Lady
• S tar-Cursed Lady: As above, but also gain 5 Endurance
3 The Steed
and lose 5 Strength.
4 The Lord
The Steed
5 Reroll, take the Star-Cursed version of the result
“The Steed is one of the Warrior’s Charges, and her Season is Mid
Year. Those born under the sign of the Steed are impatient and
Mage Birthsign Table always hurrying from one place to another.”
Roll Result
• Those born under the sign of the Steed increase Speed by 2.
1 The Mage
• Star-Cursed Steed: As above, but also gain 5 Agility and
2 The Apprentice
lose 5 Willpower or Perception (pick one).
3 The Atronach
4 The Ritual The Lord
5 Reroll, take the Star-Cursed version of the result “The Lord’s Season is First Seed and he oversees all of Tamriel during
the planting. Those born under the sign of the Lord are stronger
Thief Birthsign Table and healthier than those born under other signs.”
Roll Result
• Those born under the sign of the Lord double their natural
1 The Thief
healing rate.
2 The Lover
• S tar-Cursed Lord: As above, but also gain 5 Endurance
3 The Shadow
and the Weakness (fire, 2) trait.
4 The Tower
5 Reroll, take the Star-Cursed version of the result
49


---

## Page 27

The Mage The Thief
“The Mage is a Guardian Constellation whose Season is Rain’s “The Thief is the last Guardian Constellation, and her Season is
Hand when magicka was first used by men. His Charges are the the darkest month of Evening Star. Her Charges are the Lover, the
Apprentice, the Golem, and the Ritual. Those born under the Mage Shadow, and the Tower. Those born under the sign of the Thief are
have more magicka and talent for all kinds of spellcasting, but are not typically thieves, though they take risks more often and only
often arrogant and absent-minded.” rarely come to harm. They will run out of luck eventually, however,
and rarely live as long as those born under other signs.”
• Those born under the sign of the Mage gain the Power
Well (10) trait. • Those born under the sign of the Thief roll an extra lucky
• Star-Cursed Mage: Gain Power Well (25) instead, but lose number that they never lose regardless of their Luck score.
5 Perception, Strength, or Personality (pick one). • S tar-Cursed Thief: As above, but the character replaces
their rolled Luck score with 50, gains the Akaviri Danger-
The Apprentice Sense power, and the Running Out of Luck trait. Characters
“The Apprentice’s Season is Sun’s Height. Those born under the sign cannot spend Luck to choose this birth-sign. Instead, it is
of the apprentice have a special affinity for magick of all kinds, but available as a choice for any character who naturally rolled
are more vulnerable to magick as well.” the Thief sign.
• Those born under the sign of the Apprentice gain the The Lover
Power Well (25) trait and the Weakness (magic, 2) trait. “The Lover is one of the Thief’s Charges and her season is Sun’s
• S tar-Cursed Apprentice: Gain Power Well (50) and Dawn. Those born under the sign of the Lover are graceful and
Weakness (magic, 3) instead. passionate.”
The Atronach • Those born under the sign of the Lover gain 5 Agility.
“The Atronach (often called the Golem) is one of the Mage’s Charges. • Star-Cursed Lover: As above, but also gain 5 Personality
Its season is Sun’s Dusk. Those born under this sign are natural and lose 5 Willpower or Strength (choose one).
sorcerers with deep reserves of magicka, but they cannot generate
magicka of their own.” The Shadow
“The Shadow’s Season is Second Seed. The Shadow grants those
• Those born under the sign of the Atronach gain the Power born under her sign the ability to hide in shadows.”
Well (50) trait, the Spell Absorption (5) trait, and the
Stunted Magicka trait. • Those born under the sign of the Shadow gain the
• S tar-Cursed Atronach: As above, but gain Power Well Moonshadow power.
(75) instead and lose 5 Agility or Endurance (pick one). • Star-Cursed Shadow: As above, but also gain 5 Perception
and lose 5 Personality or Strength (pick one).
The Ritual
“The Ritual is one of the Mage’s Charges and its Season is Morning The Tower
Star. Those born under this sign have a variety of abilities depending “The Tower is one of the Thief’s Charges and its Season is Frostfall.
on the aspects of the moons and the Divines.” Those born under the sign of the Tower have a knack for finding
gold and can open locks of all kinds.”
• Those born under the sign of the Ritual may choose to
gain one of the following powers at the beginning of each • Those born under the sign of the Tower gain the Treasure
day: Blessed Touch, Blessed Word, Mara’s Gift. They have Seeker power and 5 Perception.
this power until their next long rest, when they can make • Star-Cursed Tower: As above, but also gain 5 Agility and
another choice if they wish. lose 5 Willpower or Strength (pick one).
• S tar-Cursed Ritual: Instead gain all the powers perma-
nently, but lose 5 luck.
50


---

## Page 28

S xp
pend
At this point it is time to build the bulk of the character. During
this step you may spend your XP on any of the advancements
or other items listed on the table below and apply the changes
to your character sheet.
Campaign Power Level Starting XP
Your character’s starting XP is
Power Level Starting XP
dependent on the Campaign
Low 1500+
Power Level: a category chosen
Medium 3500+
by the GM that provides a start-
High 7500+
ing baseline for the power and
Legendary 12500+ experience of the characters.
Character Creation XP Costs
Advance Type Cost
Characteristic Advance (+1 score) 30 x (Current Bonus) XP*
Learning a Skill Varies by Skill Rank**
Novice Rank (0) 100 XP
Apprentice Rank (1) 200 XP (300 total) Character Advancement Costs
Journeyman Rank (2) 300 XP (600 total) Remember that learning talents, improving skills (including spe-
cializations) governed by a favored characteristic, or advancing
Adept Rank (3) 400 XP (1000 total)
that characteristic (increasing its score by 1), costs 75% of the
Expert Rank (4) 500 XP (1500 total)
usual XP (round down to the nearest multiple of 5).
Master Rank (5) 800 XP (2300 total)
Talent Costs and Requirements
Gaining a Specialization 100 XP
Characteristic
Talent Level XP Cost
Expanding a Combat Style Requirement
25 XP
(adds one piece of equipment)
Novice 100 25
Learning a Talent Varies by Talent Level
Apprentice 200 30
Novice Level 100 XP
Journeyman 300 35
Apprentice Level 200 XP
Adept 400 40
Journeyman Level 300 XP
Expert 500 45
Adept Level 400 XP
Master 800 50
Expert Level 500 XP
Skill Level Maximum
Master Level 800 XP
Depending on how much XP your character has, they can only
Learning Magic Varies by Magic
purchase a certain amount of Ranks in any skill. These are the
Learning Conventional Spell 20 x (Spell Level) XP or
appropriate skill rank maximums that a character can have in
(no tests are required) standard drakes cost***
relation to their total XP:
Creating Unconventional Spell 30 x (Spell Level) XP or
(no tests are required) standard drakes cost***
Skill Level Maximums to Total XP
Rituals 25 XP w/ GM Permission
Skill Rank Total XP
* Characters cannot advance Luck.
Apprentice 1000
** Skill ranks must be purchased in order (see “Chapter 3:
Journeyman 2500
Skills” on page 62)
Adept 4000
*** Spells that exceed the character’s Spellcasting Level cannot be
purchased without advancing the associated skill. Additionally, Expert 5500
GMs might restrict which resource can be used to purchase. Master 7000
51


---

## Page 29

f t
iniShinG ouCheS • A character has a number of Lucky Numbers equal to
their Luck bonus. Roll 1d100 this many times, rerolling
any duplicates. These are your Lucky Numbers!
You’re almost done! All that’s left is to calculate your attributes, • A character has a number of Unlucky Numbers equal to
purchase gear, generate lucky numbers, and make any other last five minus their Luck bonus. Roll 1d100 this many times,
minute touches. Then you’ll be ready to go! rerolling any duplicates (and rerolling any of your Lucky
Numbers). These are your Unlucky Numbers!
Calculate Attributes
The player should now calculate all their attributes based on If a character’s Luck bonus changes later, then convert Lucky
the finalized values of their characteristics. Some of these have into Unlucky numbers as appropriate.
already been determined. The player should calculate the fol-
Purchase Gear & Equipment
lowing attributes and note the values on their character sheet:
• Health Points (HP): Endurance / 2 (round up) Every adventurer needs equipment! The budget of drakes that
• Wound Threshold (WT): EB + SB + WB your character has available to purchase gear before the start of
• Speed: SB + [2 x AB] the campaign is left to your GM, but we have provided some
• Initiative Rating (IR): AB + IB + PcB rough recommendations for their use below:
• Carry Rating (CR): [4 x SB] + [2 x EB]
• Magicka Points (MP): Intelligence Campaign Starting Wealth
• Stamina Points (SP): EB
Power Level Starting Drakes
• Luck Points (LP): LB
Low 0-1500
• Action Points (AP): 3
Medium 1500-5000
• Linguistics: IB - 2, to a maximum of 4 (See “Languages”
High 5000+
on page 17)
• Size Category: Standard by default Legendary GM discretion
Generate Lucky Numbers
These numbers can vary drastically depending on your cam-
Before finishing off the character, it is time to decide which paign. Some legendary games will begin in prisons! It is also
numbers are tied to your fate! Each character has a set of Lucky worth noting that you should run your final gear selection by
and Unlucky numbers that, when rolled as a result of a test, cause your GM for their approval; simply having enough money
a critical success or critical failure (respectively). To generate to theoretically buy something does not mean your character
your Lucky and Unlucky numbers, follow these steps: could reasonably acquire it. The specifics will come down to
where your campaign is set and the tone and power level your
GM wants to set.
52


---

## Page 30

Who Are Your Best Friends and Worst Enemies?
Fill Out Your Character Sheet
Ignoring the possibility that the other PCs fall into these cat-
Once you have finalized your attributes and purchased your gear, egories, who in your life would you call a best friend or worst
you should finish filling out your character sheet, noting any enemy? What happened to make things that way? Where are
aspects that still need to be finished. Do not forget to fill out they now? Do you want to see them again?
relevant aspects of the character state, including things gained
from equipment, magic, encumbrance level (taking into account What Are Your Prized Possessions?
everything the character will be on carrying), and so forth. Do you have any Items of sentimental value? Something passed
down by your family, a friend, or a mentor? You should also
Flesh Out Your Character
think about important things you’ve already lost that you would
Despite how much time we spend on them, the numbers on a do anything to get back.
character sheet aren’t everything. Much of the fun of role-playing
is creating a character who feels like a believable part of their Who Are You Loyal To?
world, but it can often be difficult to decide where to start. You Real loners are rare: Tamriel can be a dangerous place without
can spend as much or as little time on this before your game as allies. Are there people or organizations that you are loyal to?
you like, but it’s always good to put at least some thought into What did they do to earn your loyalty?
it. The following are a number of questions to consider when
building any character:
“Yes. You’re in Morrowind. I don’t know why you’re here. Or
Where Are You From? why you were released from prison and shipped here. But your
This is a critical question, especially in a complex and divided authorization comes directly from Emperor Uriel Septim VII
world like Nirn. Were you born in your racial homeland? How himself. And I don’t need to know any more than that. When
does your character view their birthplace? How were they treated you leave this office, you are a free man.”
there? Would they rather have been born somewhere else? How
do other people view them in light of where they are from? Sellus Gravius, The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind
What Is Your Family Like?
Are you an only child, or do you have brothers and sisters?
What’s your place in the family? Are you the eldest and the heir
apparent, or the disowned wild child? Are your parents still
alive? If not, how did they die?
What Is Your Social Class?
Those in the upper classes seem to have all the advantages,
but often the greatest heroes come from the lowest of places.
What part of society did your parents come from? Did they
pull themselves out of poverty? Are they still there? Or is your
noble family destitute and on the verge of ruin? How has this
influenced your life and your goals? How do you view it?
Why Are You Here Now?
What did you do before you came to be in the place you are
now (or with the party if that’s the case) and why did you stop?
What did you see in an adventuring life?
How Religious Are You?
Tamriel is a place where gods often walk amongst mortals, but
not all of them are worthy of worship. How devout are you?
Have you had an important religious experience in your life?
Or do you believe the gods have abandoned you?
53


---

## Page 31

Gaining Bonds
During character creation, characters are encouraged
to take a Bond or two. During the course of the game,
the GM may prompt you to clear existing Bonds if they
are resolved, or add new Bonds that arise throughout
the course of the campaign.
Example:
GM: You see the symbol of the Black Heart Cabal on the
corpse. It is unmistakable. How do you react?
Erriana: I .place my hand on my heart and say “It’s a
matter of honour. I’ll let no member of the Black Heart
Cabal live.”
GM: Okay. Mark down a new Bond: Vendetta against
the Black Heart Cabal.
Exploiting Bonds
If your character is in a situation where your Bonds
will inconvenience, harm, or otherwise make the
situation worse, someone, including you, can Exploit
your Bond by describing how its relevant and offering
a complication. In that case, you get two options:
Bonds
• Accept the complication and gain +1 Luck Point
Bonds are short phrases that describe something unique about • Spend a Luck to avoid the complication
your character personality. They are not necessary something
that makes you a “bad person”, but something that can compli- Example:
cate your character’s life. Whether its a vendetta, a personality
compulsion, a large debt, an inconvenient loyalty, or a forbidden GM: An old Cyrodiilic man shakes your hand and tells
love, Bonds should be thematic and resonate with your character you that adventurers are rare these days, and is willing
to bring depth and more importantly, interesting and organic to help you. “The name is Celvus, by the way. I’m the
plot hooks. head of this village,” he says in a friendly tone. Roll
Observe for me.
Example Bonds include:
• I’ve experienced great loss which I fill by obtaining material Erriana: I pass.
goods, whatever the cost.
• At the slightest insult to my honor, I find it difficult to GM: While shaking his hand, you notice a tattoo. The
temper my anger. mark of the Black Heart Cabal.
• I have a forbidden lover who I have complicated feelings
regarding. Erriana: I wore a vow for vengeance. With my left
• A have taken a vow of pacifism and seek to avoid violence hand behind my back I draw a dagger and attempt to
whenever I can. gut him.
• I owe a large debt to an illegal organization.
• I am wanted for a crime I didn’t commit and seek to return GM: You gain a bonus Luck point this session. Roll for
honor to my name. the attack, +20 for surprise.
• I hold a great grudge against someone who did me wrong
in the past.
• I am prideful and would do anything to protect my image.
54


---

## Page 32

C t Good With Animals
haraCter raitS
2 Trait Points
The character has an affinity for animals and gains a +10 bonus
During character creation, players may take certain traits to add on any Profession: Animal Handling, Ride, or Survival tests to
flavor to their characters. A character is not required to take train or calm an animal.
any traits, but they are recommended. Traits are chosen from a
preset list. Each trait has an associated Trait Point cost or bonus. Pain Tolerant
Character Traits with positive effects (Listed here as Positive 3 Trait Points
Traits) incur Trait Point costs, while traits with negative effects The character has a high threshold for pain and gains a + 10
(Listed here as Negative Traits) provide Trait Point bonuses. to Shock Tests. They also suffer -10 from the passive effects of
wounds rather than the usual -20.
In Character Creation, player characters start with 1 Trait Point.
Then, players may purchase up to 5 Character Traits by pur- Perfect Memory
chasing any combination of Negative and Positive Traits. After 3 Trait Points
Character Creation is completed, all remaining Trait Points are The character is are blessed with flawless memory, and never need
then lost. However, this is not the end-all be-all for Character any kind of roll to remember anything they have seen or heard,
Traits; GMs may determine that, given some series of events or and gain +1 bonus DoS on any successful Lore tests they make.
some level of character growth, a player character might lose a
trait and/or gain another. Preferred Enemy
1 Trait Point (Character) / 3 Trait Points (Faction)
Positive Traits
The character holds a grudge for a specific character or faction.
Characters can spend Trait Points in exchange for gaining one The character gains a +10 on any tests made that bring direct
or more of the following positive traits. harm to their preferred enemy, including Cast Magic actions,
melee and ranged attacks, and other insidious means of harm.
Attractive
2 Trait Points Situational Awareness
The character is attractive. They gain a +10 bonus to any 2 Trait Points
Personality test where their beauty plays a major role in the The character is hyper-aware of their surroundings, and can
outcome. ignore any negative modifiers to Perception for being distracted,
but not for poor lighting or environmental conditions.
Brave
3 Trait Points Slippery
The character is lionhearted and does not scare easily. They gain 3 Trait Points
a +20 bonus on Willpower tests to resist Fear or Intimidation. The character is especially flexible and gains a +10 on Acrobatics
tests involving flexibility, and can perform the Resist Secondary
Common Sense Action using Acrobatics.
3 Trait Points
The character has innately good judgement, allowing them to Threat Awareness
avoid the simple disasters in life. Any time the character is about 3 Trait Points
to make an objectively bad decision, the GM should intervene The character has a sixth sense for danger. Any time the character
to prompt the character to reassess things. is Surprised, they can choose to roll Initiative instead, but takes a
-20 on all non-defensive reactions in the first Round of combat.
Direction Sense
1 Trait Point
The character has a good sense of direction, and can always find
north when outdoors. Additionally, the character can reroll one
failed Navigate test per Long Rest.
First Impression
1 Trait Point
The character makes a good impression and gains a +10 bonus
on any Personality test when first meeting someone new.
55


---

## Page 33

Unremarkable Disturbing Voice
2 Trait Points +1 Trait Point
The character is exceptionally average looking, which for better The character has an intimidating, disturbing voice. They gain
or worse makes them harder to remember and recognize. a +10 bonus to Persuade tests made to intimidate, but suffers
Whenever this character attempts to blend in with a crowd a -10 to all other Personality based tests that involve speaking.
(that being the general public, or dressed similarly to any group
in which they’re trying to pass for a member by looks alone) Illiterate
they gain a +10 to all Subterfuge and Stealth tests made to fit in. +3 Trait Points
Additionally when appropriate and at the GM’s discretion, any The character cannot read or write.
character or NPC trying to remember or describe the character
will either have trouble doing so, such as wrongly describing Incompetent (X, Y)
them, or simply being unable to remember them entirely (for +1 Trait Point per X
better or worse). The character is particularly bad at something. Pick a skill that
the character possesses, and choose something related to that skill
Negative Traits
the character would be considered incompetent in, just like you
Characters can gain the listed Trait Points in exchange for taking would choose a specialty. It must be something general enough
on one or more of the following negative traits. that the character could conceivably be forced to roll at some
point and must be a skill that the character has trained to at
Addiction (X) least +0, like Swimming for Athletics (the GM is the final arbiter
+2 Trait Points of what qualifies as such). Whenever the character is forced to
The character is addicted to some substance, such as alcohol, make a roll with the chosen skill that would be affected by the
moonsugar, skooma, or even more alien or outlandish drugs chosen Incompetence, gain a -10 penalty to said roll per X.
such as felldew. Should the character not be able to indulge in
the drug regularly (more accessible drugs require more frequent Low Pain Tolerance
access), they suffer a -10 penalty on all tests, which increases +3 Trait Points
in severity by an additional -10 to a maximum of -30 for each The character has a low threshold for pain, suffering a -10 penalty
passing day until they get their fix. to resist the Shock Test inflicted by Wounds, as well as against
any Willpower test to resist the effects of pain. Additionally,
Aversion (X, Y) the passive Wound penalty is increased to -30 instead of -20.
+1 Trait Point per Y
The character is afraid of or averse to something (X). This can Naive
be used to represent a phobia, compulsive avoidance, or strong +2 Trait Points
dislike of a certain thing. When exposed to their aversion, the The character lacks experience in certain settings. Whenever
character suffers a -10 per Y on all tests. they see fit to do so, the GM can call for the character to make
an Intelligence test in order to not misunderstand a certain
Bad Reflexes social situation.
+2 Trait Points
The character is generally slow to react. When rolling for Oblivious
Initiative, the character rolls twice and takes the lowest. +2 Trait Points
The character is often oblivious to danger. The character suffers
Combat Paralysis a -20 on Perception based tests that would determine if the
+3 Trait Points character is surprised by an enemy or not.
The character has a habit of freezing in dangerous situations,
and must make a Willpower test any time combat breaks out. Social Stigma (X)
If they fail, they cannot take any actions or reactions during +1 Trait Points
the first Round. The character suffers from a stigma (chosen when the trait is
gained) in certain social situations. They suffer a -10 penalty to
Dampened Senses (X) socially related tests in these situations. The character may have
+1 Trait Point multiple instances of this trait for different stigmas.
The character suffers a -10 penalty on Perception tests based
on the selected sense.
56


---

## Page 34

Timid Amnesia
+3 Trait Points +5 Trait Points
The character is timid and scares easily. They suffer a -10 penalty The character has a gap in their memory, they cannot remem-
on Willpower based tests to resist Panic tests or intimidation, ber anything that happened during that time period. This is
and a -20 penalty on Horror tests. something that should be worked out with the GM, and should
come back to haunt the character.
Ugly
+2 Trait Points Blind
The character is ugly and suffers a -10 penalty to any Personality +4 Trait Points
based tests where their appearance plays a major role in the Character has the Blinded condition while they have this trait.
outcome. However, luck favors those who suffer, granting them a free
reroll on any one test not related to their lacking sight once
Weak Immune System (X) per session.
+1 Trait Point per X
The character suffers a -10 * X penalty to Endurance tests made Deaf
to resist contracting diseases when exposed. If the character has +4 Trait Points
the Disease Resistance trait, first subtract this value from the Character has the deafened condition while they have this trait.
percentage on that trait. Any overflow is applied to the penalty. However, luck favors those who suffer, granting them a free
For example, if a character has Disease Resistance (25%) and reroll on any one test not related to their missing hearing once
they take this trait at a 3 X value, then they suffer a -5 penalty per session.
to their Endurance tests for resisting diseases.
Lingering Injury
Severe Negative Traits
+4 Trait Points
These negative traits follow the same rules as above, but the The character has an old injury that comes back to bug them
effects from picking one of these aren’t necessarily limited to just at the worst times. The GM and the player should work out
the gaining of Trait Points, so be sure to read each entry carefully. the specifics of the injury, and how it affects the character.
However, living with a painful injury has made the character
Choosing any of these traits should only be done after careful tough, granting 1 Stamina Point to the character as powering
deliberation (from both player and GM), as they can greatly through exhaustion and pain is everyday life for the character.
affect the tone and amount of work required by the GM by
being implemented. Star Cursed
+5 Trait Points
The character was born beneath an unlucky star and is consid-
ered to be ill-fated. Add 2 unlucky numbers to the character.
Additionally, things simply tend to go horribly wrong in their
presence.
57


---

## Page 35

Character Names
Female Names (Cyrodilic): Breech-Star, Snail-Tail, Tern-
Feather, Travelling-New-Woman.
Altmer Names
Male Names: Aldaril, Anarenen, Andil, Angoril, Armion, Bosmer Names
Aronil, Arrille, Athellor, Carecalmo, Caryarel, Earmil, Eraamion, Male Names: Aengoth, Agarond, Allimir, Alveleg, Amring,
Erundil, Fainertil, Falanaamo, Fanildil, Fiiriel, Gladroon, Anglalos, Anruin, Arannir, Arathor, Baradras, Berengeval,
Hecerinde, Hyarnarenquar, Ilmiril, Inganar, Iroroon, Itermerel, Bolrin, Bragor, Brallion, Brithroth, Brolmir, Celegorn, Cingor,
Kardryn, Landorume, Meanen, Meryaran, Mollimo, Moranarg, Clendil, Cun, Dangor, Denegor, Dirding, Dondir, Elberoth,
Mororurg, Mossanon, Nande, Nelacar, Norionil, Olquar, Elegal, Eloroth, Endring, Engaer, Eradan, Erradan, Erval,
Qorwynn, Rimintil, Rumare, Sanyon, Seanwen, Sinyaramen, Faldan, Fargoth, Faulgor, Fillin, Findulain, Foronir, Gaeldol,
Sorcalin, Tauryon, Telinturco, Tragrim, Tunengore, Tusamircil, Gaenor, Galmir, Galthragoth, Gazalem, Gerrilgor, Glaum,
Tyermaillin, Umbacano, Undil, Uulernil, Volanaro, Yakov, Glonagoth, Godros, Gorchalas, Hingor, Meldor, Menelras,
Yanniss, Yarnar. Minedhel, Minglos, Monthadan, Morth, Nalion, Nedhelas,
Nedhelorn, Pegasai, Peragon, Rithrannir, Tarhiel, Thoromlallor,
Female Names: Anirne, Ardarume, Calmaninde, Camandil, Thoronor, Tuundir, Ulwaen, Ungeleb.
Celria, Ciralinde, Culumaire, Cumanya, Dhaunayne, Elanande,
Elante, Eldafire, Elenwen, Erissare, Erranil, Estalenya, Estirdalin, Female Names: Aerin, Aglaril, Anrel, Aradraen, Arangaer,
Estoril, Faire, Fistelle, Helende, Hession, Iirenoore, Imare, Iniel, Aranwen, Ardhil, Aredhel, Bauril, Baurin, Belwen, Berwen,
Irinwe, Lorurmend, Mirkrand, Nalcarya, Siltalaure, Sirilonwe, Borwen, Celegil, Cirwedh, Cuunel, Distel, Dondreth, Dothiel,
Sondaale, Taarie, Tarerane, Tenyeminwe, Termanwe, Viraninde. Dothruviel, Eindel, Elegnan, Elphiron, Emelin, Eraldil, Estinan,
Falion, Fara, Filbeneth, Galbedir, Galdiir, Gelduin, Gildan,
Argonian Names Giningil, Glathel, Hyna, Iingail, Indrel, Irwaen, Kirsty, Liette,
Male Names (1-Word): Asum, Bunish, Busheeus, Chalureel, Lorchel, Mara, Menelin, Milbereth, Nael, Natesse, Nathien,
Chiwish, Chulz, Chuna, Haran, Hathei, Heedul, Huleeya, Nilioniel, Nona, Penglithil, Radras, Samia, Thaeril.
Huzei, Inee, Itan, Meer, Milos, Neetinei, Nelix, Okaw,
Peeradeeh, Rasha, Reemukeeus, Reesa, Seewul, Skeetul, Tanan, Breton Names
Teegla, Tul, Ukawei, Ula, Utadeek, Weeltul, Weer, Weerhat. Male Names: Alodie, Andre, Arnand, Astien, Barnand,
Bereditte, Birard, Ciel, Cirges, Danders, Daric, Debentien,
Male Names (Hyphenated): An-Zaw, Bun-Teemeeta, Dan-Ru, Detritus, Dilborn, Elbert, Ernand, Ernard, Faric, Fenas, Ferarilie,
Effe-Tei, Eleedal-Lei, Gah-Julan, Gam-Kur, Geel-Lah, Haj- Francois, Frizkav, Frostien, Gaban, Geon, Geor, Idhdean,
Ei, Han-Tulm, Heem-La, Heir-Zish, Im-Kilaya, Jeelus-Tei, Inwold, Irbran, Jadier, Jeanciele, Jerian, Jocien, Joncis, Juillen,
Jeer-Maht, Junal-Lei, Keerasa-Tan, Miun-Gei, Mush-Mere, Lanie, Listien, Louis, Manis, Marcel, Mebestien, Merard,
Okan-Shei, Oleen-Gei, Olink-Nur, Reeh-Jah, Silm-Dar, Tee- Merthierry, Myn, Noleon, Ormax, Orrent, Paur, Perien, Phane,
Lan, Vistha-Kai, Wanan-Dum, Wud-Neeus, Wuleen-Shei. Relien, Rerlas, Roberto, Ruran, Simine, Socucius, Thetrard,
Varnis, Verick.
Male Names (Cyrodilic): Also-He-Washes, Basks-
In-The-Sun, Big Head, Dreaded-Water, Fine-Mouth, Female Names: Abelle, Aditte, Ales, Ama, Amarie, Arbene,
Grey-Throat, Hides-His-Eyes, Hides-His-Foot, High-Heart, Arielle, Asciene, Aurane, Aurnie, Belene, Bovkinna, Cienne,
Morning-Star-Steals-Away-Clouds, Fly-Breath, Nine-Toes, Dabienne, Darene, Derelle, Edre, Edwinna, Emusette, Fasele,
Only-He-Stands-There, Skinkin-Tree’s-Shade, Smart-Snake, Fasile, Frelene, Gulitte, Helviane, Heniele, Janand, Jeanne,
Smokeskin-Killer, Stream-Murk, Swims-In-Swells, Ten-Tongues, Jeberilie, Joslin, Leles, Lielle, Lirielle, Mabrelle, Malielle, Maline,
Tongue-Toad, Twice-Bitten, Wind-In-His-Hair. Maranique, Marelle, Marielle, Marthe, Masalinie, Maurrie,
Melie, Milie, Mitanne, Muriel, Pierlette, Piernette, Relie,
Female Names (1-Word): Ahaht, Akish, Banalz, Beekatan, Rianciene, Ronerelie, Sosia, Surane, Synette, Vienne, Virene.
Eutei, Gilm, Gish, Hul, Kasa, Milah, Nakuma, Neesha, Nuralg,
Nush, Okur, Onasha, Shatalg, Tasha, Wusha. Dunmer Names
Male Names: Adril, Ambarys, Arvel, Athis, Aval, Belyn, Bradyn,
Female Names (Hyphenated): Ah-Meesei, Am-Ra, An-Deesei, Casimir, Daynas, Dravin, Drelas, Drevis, Drovas, Erandur, Evul,
Chanil-Lee, Cheesh-Meeus, Deesh-Meeus, El-Lurasha, Ereel- Falas, Faldrus, Faryl, Feran, Fethis, Galdrus, Garan, Garyn,
Lei, Gih-Ja, Jeed-Ei, Kal-Ma, Keel-Raniur, Meeh-Mei, Meen-Sa, Geldis, Indaryn, Jiub, Lleril, Malthyr, Malur, Maluril, Malyn,
Muz-Ra, Nam-La, Olank-Neeus, On-Wan, On-Wazei, Seen-Rei. Meden, Mithorpa, Modyn, Naris, Neloth, Othreloth, Orini,
58


---

## Page 36

Raleth, Ralis, Ravam, Ravyn, Revus, Revyn, Rirns, Romlyn, Shunari, Tsabhi, Tsajadhi, Tsalani, Tsani, Tsiya, Tsrazami,
Saden, Sarthis, Savos, Servos, Sevan, Slitter, Sondas, Talvas, Ubaasi, Udarra, Unjara, Vanjirra, Zahraji.
Talvur, Taron, Teldryn, Tolendos, Tythis, Ulves, Ulyn, Valin,
Vals, Vanryth, Vendil, Veren, Wyndelius. Nord Names
Male Names: Agarmir, Agnar, Algot, Arctus, Beirir, Bittneld,
Female Names: Adosi, Alves, Arvena, Boderi, Bralsa, Davela, Bjalfi, Burd, Carsten, Eitar, Erich, Esbern, Fafnir, Fjotreid,
Dervera, Dovesi, Dralora, Drarana, Dredena, Falanu, Gadeneri, Geimund, Gromm, Gukimir, Gunder, Gundlar, Hafid, Hamlof,
Glistel, Llathasa, Llensi, Llevana, Malyani, Melisi, Mensa, Mirili, Hans, Havilstein, Heinrich, Henrik, Hil, Hjar, Hlofgar, Holger,
Mivryna, Myvryna, Nardhil, Norasa, Noveni, Ralsa, Relmyna, Honmund, Horkvir, Hridi, Hrol, Irroke, Iver, Jayred, Jesper,
Satha, Saveri, Tadrose, Tanasa, Tilse, Tivela, Tolisi, Tolvasa, Jofnhild, Jollring, Jorck, Jorundr, Kalthar, Keld, Larthjar,
Ulene, Undena, Uravasa, Urnsi. Logvaar, Lorenz, Lorkmir, Lynch, Manheim, Mogens, Msirae,
Nels, Newheim, Niels, Olav, Olfand, Ongar, Orgnolf, Ortis,
Imperial Names Regner, Reistr, Rolgarel, Roliand, Snar, Sten, Storn, Styrbjorn,
Male Names: Adonato, Adventus, Aerin, Agrius, Alethius, Tolgan, Torbal, Torolf, Tove, Ulfgar, Valdemar, Vidkun, Vigge,
Aquillius, Aventus, Bassianus, Caius, Calixto, Cicero, Wilhelm, Wrath, Yngvar.
Constantius, Corpulus, Crescius, Dexion, Dirge, Ennodius,
Falx, Florentius, Gaius, Gallus, Gavros, Gian, Leontius, Lucan, Female Names: Aeta, Aldi, Anja, Aumsi, Barri, Bergljot, Brasteir,
Mallus, Marcurio, Maro, Metilius, Noster, Orthus, Paratus, Eigma, Eiruki, Ekkhi, Erna, Eydis, Fryfnhild, Fryssa, Greidil,
Pavo, Plautis, Proventus, Quentin, Quintus, Reburrus, Rexus, Grerid, Haema, Heddvild, Helga, Hidar, Hjotra, Holmgeira,
Rogatus, Salvianus, Samuel, Septimus, Sergius, Severio, Silus, Horski, Hreirek, Hroa, Hrordis, Hyring, Igna, Ilfhild, Imsin,
Sorex, Sulla, Tacitus, Taurinus, Telrav, Terek, Titus, Tyranus, Ingokning, Jolding, Kar, Kili, Kjolver, Kolfinna, Lisaa, Merta,
Vantus, Varnius, Venarus, Verulus, Xander. Mette, Olfeigr, Ondi, Rangela, Ringvild, Risi, Rostlogi, Runa,
Siri, Sottilde, Svenja, Thalestris, Thunmund, Ulfrun, Ursine,
Female Names: Aia, Ariela, Arnora, Arriana, Astia, Astinia, Val, Vori, Ygfa.
Augusta, Aviera, Avresa, Britta, Bronsila, Buntara, Caelia,
Caldana, Cargas, Carmana, Casta, Caula, Ciirta, Dumania, Orsimer Names
Dynari, Erina, Etira, Faustina, Gruiand, Herminia, Isa, Ita, Male Names: Agronak, Bat, Bazur, Brugo, Bogrum, Brag, Brokil,
Janonia, Jantus, Jastia, Jastira, Javolia, Julitta, Lenka, Lucina, Bugak, Buramog, Burz, Dubok, Dul, Dulfish, Dulphumph,
Lyra, Marana, Mariana, Marlena, Martina, Millona, Narina, Dumag, Gaturn, Ghola, Ghorub, Gogron, Gorgo, Graklak,
Naspia, Perennia, Pista, Praxedes, Rena, Renee, Restita, Romana, Graman, Grommok, Gul, Hanz, Krognak, Kurdan, Kurz,
Rona, Rosentia, Rusia, Salonia, Schlera, Selena, Sibylla, Silana, Lum, Lumdum, Luronk, Magra, Magub, Maknok, Mug, Orok,
Simplicia, Tertia, Una, Viera, Vilena, Vinicia, Ysabel. Rugdumph, Shagol, Shagrol, Shobob, Shum, Ulmug, Urbul,
Urul, Ushnar, Uzul.
Khajiit Names Female Names: Agrob, Badbog, Bashuk, Bogdub, Bugdurash,
Male Names: Baadargo, Dro’Barri, Dro’farahn, Dro’Qanar, Bula, Bulak, Bulfim, Bum, Burub, Burzob, Dura, Durgat, Durz,
Dro’Sakhar, Dro’Shavir, Dro’Tasarr, Dro’Zah, Dro’Zaymar, Gashnakh, Ghob, Glasha, Glob, Gluronk, Gonk, Grat, Grazob,
Dro’zharim, Dro’Zhirr, J’Dato, J’Dhannar, J’Hanir, J’Jarsha, Gulfim, Kharzug, Lagakh, Lambug, Lazgar, Mogak, Morn,
J’Jazha, J’Kara, Jobasha, Jodhur, Jo’Ren-Dar, Joshur, Jo’ThriDar, Murob, Murzush, Nargol, Orbul, Ragash, Rolfish, Rulfim,
J’Raksa, J’Rasha, J’Saddha, J’Zamha, J’Zhirr, Ma’Dara, M’Aiq, Shadbak, Shagar, Shagdub, Sharn, Sharog, Shelur, Sloomalah,
Ma’Jidarr, Ma’Khar, Ma’Zahn, M’nashi, M’Shan, Qa’Dar, Uloth, Ulumpha, Urzoth, Urzul, Ushug, Yazgash.
Ra’Karim, Ra’Kothre, Ra’Mhirr, Ra’Sava, Ra’Tesh, Ra’Virr,
Ra’Zahr, Ra’Zhid, Ri’Darsha, Ri’Dumiwa, Ri’Shajirr, Ri’Vassa, Redguard Names
Ri’Zaadha, S’Bakha, Sholani, S’Radirr, S’Rava, S’Raverr, S’Renji, Male Names: Ahtar, Alesan, Amren, Ataf, Avidius, Azzada,
S’Vandra, S’virr, Thengil, Urjorad, Wadarkhu. Azzadal, Baral, Brenuin, Endon, Ennis, Falion, Fihada, Firir,
Haldyn, Isran, Jawanan, Kayd, Kematu, Mani, Maramal,
Female Names: Abanji, Adanja, Addhiranirr, Adharanji, Affri, Namasur, Nazeem, Nazir, Razelan, Shadr, Talib.
Ahdahni, Ahdni, Ahdri, Ahjara, Ahnarra, Ahnassi, Ahndahra,
Ahnia, Ahnisa, Ahzini, Aina, Ajira, Anjari, Arabhi, Aravi, Female Names: Adara, Ahlam, Anwen, Atmah, Braith, Eriana,
Ashidasha, Bahdahna, Bahdrashi, Baissa, Bhusari, Chirranirr, Faleen, Iman, Jayri, Jonna, Kerah, Lu’ah, Niyya, Ramati, Rayya,
Dahleena, Dahnara, Ekapi, Harassa, Habasi, Idhassi, Inerri, Rochelle, Saadia, Saffir, Saliah, Salma, Sayma, Seren, Sudi,
Inorra, Kaasha, Khamuzi, Khazura, Khinjarsi, Kiseena, Kishni, Tonilia, Umana, Yisra, Zaria.
Kisimba, Kisisa, Nisaba, Rabinna, Shaba, Shivani, Shotherra,
59


---

## Page 37

p
owerS
The GM should remember for roleplaying purposes that spirits
are capable of communicating with mortals, and that Dunmer
Powers are magic abilities inherent to certain people that cost are likely to know the name of their own ancestral spirit. The
no magicka, but whose use is limited. They are typically granted GM should also feel free to customize the profile of the spirit
by virtue of a character’s race or the sign under which they were beyond that of a generic ghost.
born. Some provide passive effects, while others are activated
abilities. Blessed Touch
This character can speak the word of the divines for an hour
Adrenaline Rush in order to remove a single wound and all of its effects (not
The character may choose to gain 1 SP at any time. If the including lost limbs) from another character. This also restores
character is fatigued when this power is used then remove a an amount of HP equal to the amount of damage dealt to cause
level of fatigue instead. This SP persists only for that encounter, the wound. This character or the target character may choose
and this power may only be used once until after the character’s to burn 2d6 Luck to allow this power to also restore lost limbs.
next long rest. The target character must remain still for the entire duration
while the character performs the ritual. This power can only be
Akaviri Danger-Sense used once until after the character’s next long rest.
The character may make a Luck test in order to avoid surprise.
Blessed Word
Ancestor Guardian The character may begin speaking the word of the divines
Each Dunmer is capable of invoking a guardian spirit of one through the use of the Cast Magic action. This has the effect
of their ancestors and can, through the use of the Cast Magic of creating a circle with a radius equal to their Willpower bonus
action, bring that spirit into the Mundus to aid them. The spirit in meters. Characters with the Undead or Undying traits must
counts as a ghost (see the Inhabitants of Tamriel supplement) flee the circle and no characters with those traits may willingly
which, if killed, is sent back to whence it came. The caster and enter it unless they can pass a -40 Willpower test (which may
their allies do not suffer fear effects from an ancestor guardian. only be attempted once per round).
Otherwise, the spirit persists until 30 minutes pass or until the The circle follows the character, but it only remains as long
end of a Combat Encounter that it participates in, whichever as they continue to speak the words and take the Cast Magic
comes first. This power may only be used once until after the action each Turn. Blessed Word can be sustained for at most 1
character’s next long rest. minute (10 rounds). This power can only be used once until
after the character’s next long rest.
The Calling
The Dwemer have developed the capability to form connections
with the minds of others, allowing silent and instant com-
munication across great distances. A Dwemer may do this at
any time, though they may not attempt to contact someone
they have not met. Forming a mental connection requires the
character to pass a Willpower test or gain a level of fatigue. Once
a connection is formed the two minds may communicate as
they see fit. Every minute of communication beyond the first
imposes another Willpower test, where failure incurs a level
of fatigue. Alternatively, they may form a connection with a
number of others equal to their Willpower bonus, but doing so
causes them to automatically fail the Willpower tests imposed
by normal communication.
60


---

## Page 38

Mara’s Gift Treasure Seeker
This character can speak the word of the divines for an hour The character has a knack for finding treasure and overcoming
in order to remove a single wound and all of its effects (not the obstacles that protect it. At any time the character can choose
including lost limbs) from themselves. This also restores an to reroll a failed Subterfuge test made to pick a lock or disarm
amount of HP equal to the amount of damage dealt to cause a trap, but only once for a given test. This power may only be
the wound. The character may choose to burn 2d6 Luck in used once until after the character’s next long rest.
order to allow this power to also restore lost limbs. The character
must remain still for the entire duration while they perform War Cry
the ritual. This power can only be used once until after the Nords are able to call on a very simple form of the Thu’um
character’s next long rest. and harness it to frighten their enemies in battle. As a Primary
Action, they put forth a mighty war cry that forces all enemies
Moonshadow who hear it to make a Panic (+30) test. If a character passes
The character possesses a simple form of innate shadow magic. this test, they are immune to the effects of this power for the
This power may be activated once a day with the use of the Cast remainder of the encounter. This power may only be used once
Magic action. The character becomes Invisible for 18 seconds until after the character’s next long rest.
(3 rounds). The character may spend a Luck point, or burn
one Luck, to extend this duration by one round (this may be
done as many times as the character desires). This invisibility is
broken if the character makes an attack, after which it reforms
at the beginning of the next round as long as there is 1 round
of duration left. This power may only be used once until after
the character’s next long rest.

