In a normal day, a plethora of goods ﬂows through Tamriel’s markets. Tamriel’s many thriving economies have resulted in a continent linked through trade and commerce. There are a vast number of goods and services produced by these systems that characters might need to survive, or might encounter, during their adventures. This chapter is concerned with the economics of the Elder Scrolls setting, as well as detailing the various items players use or buy.
Currency
The main currency of Tamriel in the time during and after the Septim Empire is the Septim, a golden coin around the size of a quarter. Named after the dynasty that ruled the Septim Empire, it features a bust of Tiber Septim and a depiction of Akatosh. The inscription on the front reads, “The Empire is Law. The Law is Sacred.” And the reverse reads:, “Praise be, Akatosh and all the Divines.” Although many provinces issue their own provincial currencies these can all be converted to Septims. If you are running a campaign in an era before the Septim Empire, simply use an alternative name (such as “Remans”). And while we have no information on the way that the Empire handles its monetary policy, the authors are making the assumption that there are diﬀerent types or denominations of currency in existence within the empire. In game terms, this means a few things:
•	  This Chapter will use the more Era-neutral word “Drakes” for currency. “Gold” is an acceptable substitute, though the authors would prefer not to assume that every coin actually contains gold.
•	  Coins have no in-game weight unless the GM decides a character is simply carrying too much money to ignore. This is done for simplicity.
•   Rather than making players keep track of the diﬀerent kinds of coins they have, it should be assumed that characters can carry as much money as they want, simply making use of more and more valuable denominations.
•   Likewise, it should be assumed that there are enough coins of the various denominations ﬂoating around that indi-viduals can always complete transactions accurately and receive change.
In short, don’t worry about how many of which types of coins you’re carrying. Just keep track of how many Drakes you have. This is to save time and accounting for both the players and the GM.
For groups that enjoy this sort of thing, it is easy to convert the system into one based around diﬀerent types of coins. Simply use the value of a single Drake as the base for the lowest value coin and scale things up by multiples of ten for more valuable coins as you see ﬁt. 

PRICING & ACQUISITION
Not all prices for one item are going to be the same: regional price variations are to be expected. Some things are simply harder to get a hold of in some places and easier in others. Additionally, item price will vary drastically with the quality of the item itself. We have intentionally left item rarity up to the Game Master for the majority of items in this section. These guidelines should help the GM produce prices that are acceptable for game-play purposes. 
A Note on Rounding
If an item ever ends up with a fractional price for any reason, simply round up to the nearest whole number.
Availability & Cost Modifiers
In order to locate an item for sale, a character must make a Commerce or Investigate test. The diﬃculty of the test should be determined by the speciﬁc item the character is looking for. The GM should use their judgment and lore knowledge in equal measure when making their decision. The following table can provide some guidelines:
Availability Modifiers
Extremely Rare => -40; Rare => -30 ; Scarse => -20 ; Uncommon => -10 ; Average => 0 ; Ordinary => +10 ; Common => +20; Plentiful => +30; Uniquitous => +40
Item Quality Level
Items can also vary drastically in quality based on how well they were made or some feature inherent to the item. This will modify their price and their availability. There are three quality levels for most items: inferior, common, and superior. Exactly what measurable impact this has on the item (if any) will be explained in the appropriate section (Utility Weapons (page 174)and Armor & Shield Quality (page 176) sections later in this chapter).
Item Quality Level ( Quality => Avaiability => Price)
Inferior => 2 steps more common => -50%
Common => No change =>  -
Superrior => 2 steps rare => +100%
Location Modifiers
While Tamriel has a ﬂourishing international market due to the many merchant guilds dotting the continent, certain objects must be imported or accessed through more illegitimate means. The following table can provides some guidelines for any such availability and pricing modiﬁers:
(Circumstances => Availability Mod => Price)
Illegal ware => Increased 1 step => +25%
Stolen goods => Increased 2 steps => -20%
Local wares (Chitin in Morrowind) => Decreased 1 step => N/A
Imported from nearby region (Adaman-tium outside High Rock) => Increased 1 step => 25%
Rare/limited import (Dwemer artifacts, Dragon remains.) => Increased 2 steps => 50%
Haggling for a Bargain
Bargaining is a part of everyday life and almost expected amongst professional merchants.
Should a character wish to bargain with a merchant for the price of their wares, roll an opposed Commerce Test against the merchant. For every Degree of Success the character scores above the merchant, a 5% discount is gained. If the merchant wins the Commerce test, increase the price by 5% per Degree of Success instead.
A character can always choose to not accept a bad bargain, but a local market is a living, breathing thing and word travels fast about bad customers.
Should a character deny a ‘bargain’ and go elsewhere, the GM can choose to apply a penalty equal to the % of the bargain that was denied.
Unscrupulous Traders
Certain merchants can be particularly unscrupulous in their bargaining, either due to holding a monopoly on a certain ware or being a position that allows them to press their hapless victim for an extra fee like a fence giving less for stolen goods, well knowing that the prospective seller has nowhere else to go. When bargaining with such unscrupulous types, the GM can choose to apply a penalty ranging from -10 to -40 to the char-acters Commerce Test when bargaining for a better price on their goods.
Appraising an Item
Not knowing the current market value of certain goods has been the bane of many a haggler.
If a character wishes to assert the price of an object of inter-est before going for the bargain, roll a Commerce Test with a modiﬁer equal to the items rarity (see Availability Modiﬁers on page 108) to see if they can learn the current rates. 
On a success, the character gains a +10 bonus to their attempt at haggling.
On a failure however, add a -5 penalty per Degree of Failure to their attempt at haggling, as they have misinterpreted the current trend of the market.
WEAPONS
Conﬂict and danger are constants in Tamriel, and it is wise for adventurers to arm themselves. Weapons in UESRPG are divided in a number of diﬀerent ways. First, there are two classes of weapons: melee and ranged. All weapons are deﬁned by a Weapon Profile, which contains all the information necessary to use the weapon. 
Weapon Qualities
Many weapons possess special rules, known as Weapon Qualities, that represent factors that set them apart from other weapons in some fashion.
“The Big Three”
Below are the three most important weapon qualities. Most weapons posses one of these qualities, which are critical to their identity. Their eﬀects can stack on instances of themselves or with one another.
Crushing (X)
Weapons with this quality can crush metal and bone alike. They deal bonus damage equal to the wielder’s Strength bonus (or X, if another value is given), capped at the AR of the hit location or BR of a shield used to block it.
Splitting (X)
Weapons with this quality can deal savage wounds when properly brought to bear. They deal bonus damage equal to the wielder’s Strength bonus (or X, if another value is given), but only if the initial damage result causes the target to lose 1 or more HP.
Slashing (X)
Weapons with this quality tear ﬂesh with ease, dealing bonus damage equal to the wielder’s Strength bonus (or X, if another value is given) against unarmored hit locations.
Other Weapon Qualities
Listed below are many of the other qualities weapons may have. It is important to be familiar with the qualities your weapons possess and how they interact with one another!
Complex
A character cannot move on a Turn that they are reloading this weapon.
Concussive
The weapon causes heavy impacts and can send opponents sprawling. When a character triggers the bash Special Action after gaining advantage with this weapon, they gain a +20 bonus to the opposed test.
Damaged (X)
Weapons with this quality deal X less damage. If this would ever render a character incapable of dealing damage with the weapon, even with the maximum possible roll, then the weapon is destroyed. Natural Weapons cannot receive this Quality. All instances of this quality stack.
Dueling Weapon
Weapons with this quality add an additional degree of success to successful tests made to parry or Counter-Attack with them.
Entangling
Attacks with this weapon cannot be parried or blocked. Instead of dealing damage, a successful attack with this weapon forces the opponent to make a Strength or Agility test. If they fail, they gain the Entangled (page 111) condition. They can spend 1 AP as a Secondary Action to repeat the test, freeing themselves and removing the condition on a success. 
If this eﬀect was applied by a melee attack, then should the target character leave the melee range of the Entangling weapon, the character wielding the weapon must choose to either let go of their weapon (maintaining the eﬀect on the target) or keep their weapon (removing the eﬀect from the target).
Focus
Character treats the hand holding the weapon as a free hand for the purposes of casting spells. The weapon does not increase the range of any spell as a result of its reach.
Exploit Weakness
These weapons are small and able to slip into gaps in a target’s defenses. Attacks with this weapon treat full armor as partial armor and partial armor as unarmored (but do not actually reduce the location’s AR). This can be used to trigger eﬀects, such as Slashing, that interact with the level of armor the target is wearing.
Flail
Weapons of this type are able to strike unpredictably. These weapons cannot be parried or countered, but cannot be used to parry or Counter-Attack either. If an attacker with this weapon and a defender blocking with a shield both pass their respective tests and the attacker’s degrees of success exceed those of the defender, then the defender does not block the attack as they normally would, and the attack is resolved as if the attacker had won. If a character critically fails an attack with a ﬂail they hit themselves.
Impaling
If this weapon is used to make an attack of opportunity against a character who is approaching the wielder, and that attack causes the target to lose HP, the target does not advance and instead halts their movement for the Turn. 
Hand to Hand
This weapon can be used with Unarmed Combat Style and counts as Unarmed for the purposes of resolving damage. Additionally, the wielder can perform actions that require an open hand while wielding these weapons at a -10 penalty.
Hooked
This weapon has a hook that can be used to trip and yank opponents and their weapons. Attempts to defend against the character’s Disarm, Take Weapon & Trip Special Actions is done at a -10 penalty.
Magic
Weapons with this quality are able to harm targets that would otherwise resist or be impervious to damage from normal weap-ons, such as ghosts. 
Mounted
Weapons with this quality can only be used while mounted due to their weight and balance and only if the character moves.
Primitive
Roll twice and use the lower value for this weapon’s damage.
Proven
Roll twice and use the higher value for this weapon’s damage.
Reload (X)
After attacking with this weapon, characters must spend X AP using a Ready Secondary Action in order to reload this weapon before they can attack with it again.
Shield Splitter
Attacks from this weapon halve the BR of shields used to block them (round up).
Sling
This weapon does not use conventional ammunition; instead, it uses small rocks and other similarly-sized and shaped objects. Ammunition can be speciﬁcally purchased or crafted for this weapon but the material’s damage bonus is not applied.
Small
This weapon cannot be used to Parry or Counter attacks from 2 handed weapons. Readying it does not cost an AP. The wielder may make a Subterfuge skill test to conceal the weapon. Enemies with normal weapons can make opportunity attacks against characters with this weapon who enter their range.
Snare
This weapon can be used to perform the Bash and Trip Special Actions while ignoring the 2 meter range limitation. Doing so always uses the attacker’s Combat Style skill against the defender’s Athletics or Evade skill.
Thrown (X/Y/Z)
This weapon can be thrown as a ranged attack against a target  within X/Y/Z meters. Resolve this like a normal ranged attack (though Strength can be a base for the test), dealing the weapon’s normal damage and ignoring Slashing/Crushing/Splitting.
Unwieldy
Attempts to parry or Counter-Attack using this weapon suﬀer a -20 penalty. 
Ranged & Melee Weapons
Weapon Attributes
All weapons have most of these attributes associated with them:
•	Damage (Dam): The damage dealt by the weapon. Typically expressed as a die roll to which a value may be added.
•	Handedness: How many hands the weapon requires.
•	One Handed: Weapon can be wielded in one hand.
•	Hand and a Half: Weapon may be used with one or two hands (cannot be dual wielded). When using it in two hands, use the larger damage value (in parenthesis).
•	Two Handed: Weapon requires the use of two hands.
•	         Reach: A melee weapon’s range in meters. Represents eﬀec-tive threat range and not merely the length of the weapon. Weapons with a minimum range (such as 2-3m) cannot attack targets below their minimum range.
•	 Range: A ranged weapon’s short, medium, and long ranges. Attacking targets in close range provides a +10 bonus to attack tests with the weapon, while attacking targets at long range imposes a -20 penalty.
•	ENC: The weapon’s Encumbrance value.
•	Qualities: Any Weapon Qualities the weapon has.
•	Price: The base price of the weapon in Drakes.
Weapon Materials
Every weapon is made of something, and the material of a weapon can dramatically improve its eﬀectiveness. When pick-ing a weapon from either the ranged or melee weapon tables, you must pick a material for that weapon as well from the appropriate table below. 
A weapon’s material determines...
•	Enchant Level: The maximum soul energy of any enchant-ment that can be placed on the weapon.
•	Price Modifier: Modiﬁes the base price of the weapon to determine the ﬁnal cost (quality modiﬁes this value).
•	Any modifiers to damage or range the weapon receives.       
•	Any additional qualities the weapon has.
Weapon Quality Level
The overall quality with which a weapon is crafted can have a dramatic impact on how eﬀective it is in combat. The following table details what each quality level does to the weapon proﬁle.
Weapon Quality Level
Inferior => Weapon gets Primitive quality => -50%
Common => No change =>  -
Superrior => Weapon Gets proven quality => +200%


/// Melee Weapons table ///

/// Melee Weapon Materials /// 

///Utility Weapons///

///Sling Materials///

/// Ranged Weapons /// 

/// Ranged Weapon Materials /// 

/// Ammunition Materials ///


Special Melee Weapon Materials
   Wood (0.5 x price, 100 EL): No modiﬁer for Quarterstaﬀs and Maces. Halves damage of all other weapons.
  Bone (0.5 x price, 0 EL): Weapon deals half damage.
pecial Melee Weapon Qualities
Certain extra qualities that can be used to enhance an existing weapon. Often only provided by skilled craftsmen. Price modiﬁers are based on the ﬁnal price of the weapon after material modiﬁers.
•	Runed (+20% Price): Gains Magic.
•	 Silvered (+30% Price): Gains Magic, counts as silver for damage purposes.
• Spell Focus (+50% Price): Gains Focus.
Special Ranged Weapon Qualities
Certain extra qualities that can be used to enhance an existing weapon. Often only provided by skilled craftsmen.
  Spell Focus (100 drakes): Gains Focus.
Thrown Ranged Weapons
Ranged weapons with the Thrown quality count as melee weap-ons for the purposes of determining weapon material.
Ammunition
Most ranged weapons use ammunition to reload: either arrows (bows) or bolts (crossbows). The material of the ammunition modiﬁes the damage of the weapon on the shot it’s used for. The material of the ammunition can also impart certain quali-ties to the attack and determines the enchantment level of the ammunition. Ammunition is priced per 10 shots, and each shot is ENC 0 (so 10 shots is ENC 1).
Bolts have no unique rules associated with them, and their rules are built into the profile of the crossbows above. Arrows, on the other hand, come in one of two diﬀerent types, each corresponding with the way that type inﬂicts damage. There are no cost diﬀerences between these types:
Arrow Types
Slashing Arrows: The shot gains the Slashing quality (usesthe ﬁring character’s Strength bonus as normal).
 Splitting Arrows: The shot gains the Splitting quality (uses the ﬁring character’s Strength bonus as normal).

ARMOR
There are many styles and types of armor that the people of Tamriel use to defend themselves. This section provides rules for the use of both worn armor and shields.
Armor & Shield Quality
The overall quality with which a piece of armor is crafted can have a dramatic impact on how eﬀective it is in combat. The following table details what each quality level does to the proﬁle.
Armor/Shield Quality
Inferrior => Increases weight class by one step. => -25%
Common => No change => -N/A
Superrior => Decreases weight class by one step. => +100%
Special Armor Qualities
Certain extra qualities that can be used to enhance existing armor. Often only provided by skilled craftsmen.
Runed (+25% price): Gains Magic and 1 magic AR.
Armor Qualities
Many armor pieces and shields possess special rules, known as Armor Qualities, that represent speciﬁc eﬀects or certain diﬀerences between armor types.
Magic
Armor with this quality is magical and provides protection against certain attacks, such as those of incorporeal beings. Shields with this quality can be used to block such attacks.
Damaged (X)
A piece of Armor or a shield with this quality has its all of its Armor Ratings (AR, MR, etc) or BR reduced by X. If this would reduce AR or BR to 0, then the item is destroyed. Natural Armor cannot receive this Quality. All instances of this quality stack.
Weight Classes
Most armors and shields have a weight class, reﬂected by one of the qualities below, that represents how heavy and restrictive that armor is. When wearing multiple diﬀerent types of armor and/or carrying a shield, the character always uses the eﬀects of their heaviest armor piece. 
(No listed class)
The armor is light enough it imposes no penalties on its user.
Light
Light armor imposes a minor penalty on a character’s mobility: The character suﬀers a -10 penalty to Acrobatics skill tests.
Medium
Medium armor imposes a moderate penalty on a character’s mobility: the character suﬀers a -10 penalty to Agility based tests (except Combat Style skill tests) and reduces their Speed by 1. 
Heavy
Heavy armor imposes a substantial penalty on a character’s mobility: the character suﬀers a -20 penalty to Agility based tests (except Combat Style skill tests) and reduces their Speed by 2. 
Super-Heavy
Super-Heavy armor imposes a staggering penalty on a character’s mobility: the character suﬀers a -30 penalty to Agility based tests (except Combat Style skill tests) and reduces their Speed by 3.
(Crippling)
Character cannot move, and suﬀers a -40 to all tests.
Worn Armor
Worn armor encompasses anything that a character wears to protect their body from harm. 
Armor Rating & Hit Locations
A given piece of armor protects a single hit location on a charac-ter’s body. The standard uniform of the Imperial Legionaire, for example, is a steel breastplate (body), helmet (head),  pauldrons/bracers (arms), and greaves/boots (legs). 
A piece of armor’s Armor Rating (AR) is a measure of how much protection it oﬀers to that hit location: any physical attacks that strike that hit location have their damage reduced by its AR. Some armors also have additional AR values that protect against other damage types (such as magic AR).
Armor Classes
Instead of trying to keep track of the myriad styles of armor that exist, all armor in the UESRPG is divided into one of two classes: partial and full armor. 
Partial Armor is any piece of armor that does not entirely cover the hit location it is protecting. As a result it typically oﬀers lower protection than full armor but weighs much less.
Full Armor is any piece of armor that almost entirely covers the hit location it is protecting. As a result it typically oﬀers improved protection at the cost of increased weight.
The combination of an armor’s class and material are what make up its complete proﬁle. It is these combinations that characters choose from when picking armor. Unlike the weapon tables on the previous pages, the armor tables on the next page have already factored in the effects of an armor’s material. Simply pick the one you want, and you’re ready to go!
Example: The Imperial Legion armor described above would be classified as partial steel armor given its material and level of cov-erage whereas a suit of plate armor would be classified as full steel armor instead. These classes were designed to be somewhat abstract.
Armor Attributes
All armor pieces have these attributes associated with them:
•	          Armor Rating (AR): Any ARs the armor piece grants to the hit location that it covers.
•	Qualities: Any armor qualities the armor has.
•	 ENC: The Encumbrance value for a given piece of armor. ENC is halved when armor is worn (but not for carried shields).
•	Enchant Level (EL): The maximum soul energy of any enchantment that can be placed on the piece of armor.
•	Price: The price of the armor piece in Drakes both for an individual piece (for one hit location) and the full suit.

/// Partial Armor Types ///
/// Full Armor Types ///
/// Shields ///
Shields
Shields are defensive weapons used to protect their wielders from enemy attack. They are considered a type of armor in this system but do not follow the normal rules for armor.
Block Rating
Instead of an AR, shields have a Block Rating (BR), which reﬂects a combination of the shield’s coverage and toughness. If a character blocks an attack with a shield, then the attacker rolls damage with the attacking weapon. If the damage result is less than or equal to the shield’s BR, nothing happens. If the damage result exceeds the shield’s BR, then the character takes that damage on their shield arm. Shields count their BR as being half as much (round up) against attacks that deal magic damage unless they have a unique BR listed for magical attacks.
This reﬂects the way that, while a shield can protect its user from harm,  using a shield to block repeated heavy hits can quickly drain a defender’s energy even if they are still able to avoid direct harm. Eventually they will ﬁnd themselves tiring and unable to maintain their defense.
Shield Types 
Tower Shield
All shields can be purchased as a tower shield instead. Tower shields are 1 weight class heavier (to a maximum of super-heavy) than a normal shield of their type, have 1 higher ENC, and cost 25% more. Tower shields grant the wielder a +10 bonus to tests made to block attacks, but carrying one reduces a character’s Speed by 1.
Targe
All shields can be purchased as a targe instead. Targes are 1 weight class lower than normal shields of their type and cost 25% less. Targes halve their BR (rounding up) and count as a free hand, but only for wielding Small weapons or when grappling.
Buckler
All shields can be purchased as a buckler instead. Bucklers are 1 weight class lower than a normal shield of their type, have 1 lower ENC, and cost 25% less. Bucklers can not block. Instead, they add an extra degree of success to all successful Parry tests. Additionally, when the defender wins an opposed Parry test they always gain Advantage, but they must pay the AP cost if picking the Special Action Advantage.



